everybody let's go ahead we'll we'll
call this meeting to order this is the
town of Andover uh Board of Finance uh
regular meeting for uh March 26 2025 for
recite the Pledge of Allegiance a pledge
allegiance to the flag the United States
of America and to the Republic for which
it stands one
nation visible with liberty and justice
for all okay thank you uh I guess could
open up to public speak I don't see
anybody other than Wall-E um Eric is
that what you're seeing uh that's all I
see yeah okay well he'll have a chance
to speak so if that's okay with you w
we'll go ahead and proceed I'm just here
for Section seven Mark okay the next
item is uh changes and additions to the
agenda so um we will entertain motions
to change the agenda the one thing I
would suggest is that we might think
about moving section
71 uh which is the fire department
commission budget discussion up uh so
Wally can uh talk talk to us about that
and then he can head out if he chooses
that way he's not stuck through the
whole discussion um anybody have any
other suggestions or changes Joanne yeah
I didn't know um if if more people were
involved were here and AES Personnel
were here to discuss the request I was
going to do the same thing but since
they're not here it looks like we can
keep that as is and yeah I think yeah
I'm good with that thank you great
idea okay I guess I'll just normally I
don't make a motion as chair but I'll
make a motion just because this is
procedural to uh to put under uh under
item three we'll change it we'll add
item four which is uh item 41 which is
the fire department of commission budget
discussion so everybody do I have a
second on
that Bill thank you anybody else when
when did you move it to um Mark sorry I
would I would just do it next perfect y
yeah so it would be basically 41 yeah or
31 right four is executive uh three is
changes and additions so it would
technically be another agenda
item okay no I just see executive
session under four unless I'm looking at
the wrong thing yeah well it is but it
would normally move to five and then
five to move to six so we okay thank you
re number like that yeah oops Got
It other discussion or
questions okay all in favor say I I any
opposed any
extensions okay uh so moved so we will
go ahead and I don't think we have any
no other additions or changes
recommended
okay we'll go ahead then W you can uh
you can uh we'll have give you an
opportunity to kind of explain this Eric
do you have the Fire Commission budget
oh I've got it in front of me if you
want me to share uh yeah you can share
it that's probably
easiest I can pull it up if not I've got
it right here
okay so this is pretty straightforward
it's um fairly simple and
straightforward uh looks like you're
you're looking for a fairly flat budget
there Wall-E and you know it's because
one of the things that kind of made us
made us uh kind of I think two things
that the board had had questions on is
just kind of what are some of these uh
items used for um and is there any
particular rationale to the changes
there must be something driving vehicle
maintenance for example equip equipment
maintenance that kind of thing um you
know to me I guess looking at
electricity is electricity and that's a
lot of money but it is what it is I'm
assume that's based kind of on History
Telecom is probably just what your costs
are um propane is that for heating yes
it is that's all we use propane for
heating the building okay gas and Diesel
obviously for the vehicles and apparatus
yep um Building Maintenance so you got
about $20,000 fair amount of money there
what what typically does that cover okay
that takes care of everything on the
exterior of the building and the
interior of the building um we paint
different sections each year we
maintain the plumbing the heating
system the uh bathrooms anything that
has to be changed things like UR or uh
toilet bowls that break that have to be
changed that's all in that budget uh
changing light bulbs anything to do with
the building or the actual grounds is
within that building maintenance
budget does that tend to be flat year to
year or do you guys end up with big
expenses occasionally or normally it
doesn't vary very much if we have a good
year without things breaking down we put
money towards like painting a room or
something else else that needs it but uh
it does seem to operate fairly well at a
flat
level well are there any specific items
that that we know about for this year
for the building
maintenance uh no not other than our
normal routine maintenance items and the
lawn care and whatnot the exterior of
the building um we just did some
painting inside this year and there may
be another section where we're gonna do
some touch-up painting in one of the
rooms do you have maybe a detail report
w-e um to show the detail of how that
$20,000 is spent not really to be honest
give
us
okay as the year goes progresses and we
have costs that come in that are
associated with the building maintenance
we authorize those expenditures but we
don't have a real breakdown that we plan
each year to do X Y or
Z you don't typically I would think for
the kind it's fairly simple
straightforward accounting you do you
you don't separate accounts or things
like that this is basically your account
that's correct each of these are the
line items that we utilize as a Fire
Commission to charge back to
okay and what what is pro teac
cloth protective clothing protective
Gear helmets boots gloves that's
protective
[Music]
gear and FF supplies Wally firefighting
supplies H nozzles adapters anything
associated with firefighting that either
needs to be replaced or is purchased new
to upgrade
something
and Joan you had your hand up before
I'll go ahead I just wondered because I
like to learn about the town Wally and
any given day how many people like are
at the fire St are there people there
every day no what no there are no people
at the firehouse we have no paid
Personnel yeah strictly volunteer yeah
the tones go out to respond to a call
people respond to the Firehouse but
there's no one sitting at the firehouse
waiting for a call on a regular basis
sure unless there's something going on
at the firehouse itself and that kind of
that just kind of helps us you know I
was thinking that out loud right that
that answers the question so obviously
it's a beautiful building from the
outside I've never been inside but um
right everyone's volunteers you have how
yeah so there's not people there and so
it's not used a lot right hopefully we
hope they're not fighting fires every
week or every day so our call volume has
increased this year dramatically from
the last two years so there are people
in and out and if you've never seen the
firehouse this Sunday I believe is Carol
Le's retirement which is being put on by
the fire department and if you want to
walk into the building and see what it
looks like you're more than
welcome I appreciate that I don't want
to crash the party or no I just I like
to see different things and and know how
often they're used and all of that and
it just goes along with all the
questions no thank you Wally and again
every Wednesday night they have a drill
and if you're in the area around 7
o'clock you can stop in and they'll give
you a tour of the firehouse show you the
fire apparatus show you anything you
want to
see and once our weekly meetings are
done that would be nice we I know I was
thinking the same thing yeah last
question I was uh going to ask was cost
recovery Wally what is cost recovery
okay for every time a firefighter
responds to a call he earns a point for
every drill he attends he earns a point
for every meeting he attends he earns a
point all of these points are put
together and twice a year they take the
total number of
points and they have
$7,000 to divide by the total number of
points each firefighter that responds
let's say you went to 50 calls and 10
meetings you would get a cost recovery
check equivalent
to let's say
$100 to help cover your cost for your
gas vehicle maintenance any clothing
that you dist destroyed a fire or an
ambulance call that's what the cost
recovery was put in place four years ago
thank you
yep and are there years Wally that you
have you know hopefully we have some
lean years where you're not and I
understand your volunteer you they all
go out like when there's car crashes and
all that kind of things as well like for
safety so I know it's not just fires in
town we get that are there years that
you're like okay we have $167,000
budget but we really didn't use it all
has that happened quite a bit it has
happened we have years where things like
the vehicle maintenance we just got rid
of two vehicles and we're getting a new
one this year
hopefully so we decided we could reduce
the vehicle maintenance budget last year
we didn't have a lot of vehicle
maintenance we had a good
year things go up and down and equipment
maintenance that saw an increase last
year because all the vendors are
charging more of an hourly rate they're
all charging us a fuel charge because if
they have to drive from wherever to the
Firehouse to do the service we're paying
a fuel cost so our costs have increased
and that sort of a thing last year we
did return money to the town I don't
have the exact figure I think it was
around
$3,000 but if we have money at the end
of the year we always turn it back in at
the end of the
year no thank you I I mean I imagine it
varies right yes it does yeah we've been
very fortunate that we've never had a
big problem where we've had to go back
to the board of the finance in the
middle of a year to ask for more money
because we try and work our budget so it
lasts us all the way till the end of
June that's great
um follow-up question just because
you're here and I appreciate your time
um I know
that you came on earlier and we already
covered it immensely but I just want to
make sure that when we come to the time
to vote on it that whole countertop or
cabinet replacement this is for the
firehouse somewhere in that somewhere in
that building that sits there okay yes
okay in like a kitchen is that what
we're
great because I love I do like f you
know obviously if there are people there
you have to have a kitchen to feed them
and all that yeah Wally showed us
there's two different spots go ahead
Wally I'm sorry right because CIP right
or something you guys yeah CIP looked at
this the cabinets are for the kitchen
the countertop is for the kitchen and
the watch room where the radio sit where
they do all the report writing that
counter has actual damage to it from all
the years of service so the two counters
we're looking at are the kitchen and the
watch room the cabinets are just for the
kitchen itself and the kitchens and the
cabinets are in a horri I'm just
thinking for a
building you know you've already talked
about it they're because they're old
they're just in a bad it's not a
building that's used all the time and I
you're trying to revamp it so it but
they're in bad shape pretty much yeah
they are they're showing their age again
the building was built in 89
and they are showing their age and to be
perfectly honest when it was built they
weren't topshelf
cabinets if Serv Joan when we went
through yeah um there's at least a
couple cabinets where the doors are they
don't actually hang right anymore you
know um you know it's not a complete
disaster area in there or anything but
um it makes sense to to do this you know
if it wasn't this year you know next
year you know that kind of thing but
you're not going to put this off for any
significant period of time I don't think
I think I think we all looked at it and
we're basically satisfied the CIP
committee I mean uh we're basically
satisfied that some work needed to be
done in there just FYI no I appreciate I
mean since he's here I figure take ADV
and learning that it's not used all the
time no thank you looks like Liz sorry
Markel am I right in that that would be
covered in the current Year's budget or
is that going to be budgeted for this
budget season that we're working on
now that's a capital expense so I think
it's in the I thought that they had said
it's already in that building fund But
Eric or Mark or Eric will answer but I'm
pretty sure it's already in there I
thought so Liz that's expected to be
paid for out of the building maintenance
fund um and we currently have the money
to cover that within the building
maintenance fund I think that's what I
said too Liz But Eric Eric yes gotta yep
got
it any other questions for Wally on
this can I am I allowed to ask him since
he's here of his free will thank you
Wally I did ask a question last week
about the elections and I know you're
part of that too um reg you know
or
elections um and I know there was kind
of a I don't have it in front of me
there was a little bit of a sizable
increase and I had asked Eric the
question he said it should go to you or
someone okay I'll explain a piece of
that let me just and thank you Wally uh
yeah it just seems like it's it's a
non-election year so I didn't know why
the bigger increase this particular year
thanks Wally the state is going to dump
two brand new systems on us whole new
voter registration system we're getting
brand new tabulators that are not what
we have now so we have to go through
training we have to train our people in
how to use all of these and somewhere in
the fall we're supposed to talk about
another brand new system that's going to
go into effect in early
2026 so between the time that we have to
sit in the office and actually utilize
these systems and get fluent in the
operation of them and one system in
particular the new voter registration
system is going to require us to take
every address and Handover and tie it
into a global positioning pin so I've
got 2200 voters in Handover and for each
one of these voters sometime within the
calendar year we're going to have to sit
and adjust every voter's address to a
GPS
location so our workload is exploding
with all these wonderful new systems the
state has so yes the the two registra
are going to have to put in a lot more
hours to handle all of these things as
well as all the early voting and other
things that come down the road where we
have to spend the time time before the
election getting all the paperwork in
place getting everything to the
Secretary of State's office lining up
our people to work so our workload has
increased dramatically that's a great
explanation having you here like two
seconds like that thank you that you
explained it perfectly appreciate that
Wally all right Mak
sense any other questions for Wally
Louise yeah that's not a question it's
more of a I think I speak for all of us
we thank you for your service Wally and
all your all the f fighters and all the
staff associated with that that's all
right I'll pass that on to the chief so
we can pass it on to the membership
please do thank you y thanks for coming
back again Wally we appreciate it it's
okay you didn't beat me up too bad I
didn't mind it at all thank you thank
you
we need our brain to expand yeah that's
good that's helpful
yeah okay thank you okay good very good
thank you everybody
yeah I would just say one of the things
I've really appreciated about our fire
department is we are one of the few fire
departments that have been able to
maintain enough of a volunteer basis or
enough of a volunteer base to to run
essentially 100%
volunteer and if you look at the budget
for the Fire Commission the entire Fire
Commission it's basically the same as
one resident state trooper which is
another way of saying if we had to hire
a professional fire you know if we had
to actually hire an employee to do that
every employee is going to cost us
within directs today close to what we're
paying for the whole
operation um so good point it's not a
bad deal it really is the yeah yeah I I
think I wanted to Echo that too and
that's the one comment I was going to
make having kind of been involved with
the fire department in Suffield my prior
life the the cost here is you know
peanuts compared to what it takes to run
either a semi staff or even a larger
volunteer Force so they're really doing
a pretty good job I think for with what
with what they're doing
so I think my only comment that I would
like to make is um you know many members
of this board have asked for you know
excruciating levels of detail when it
comes to
AES but there's no detail in this budget
and I'm all for the fire department and
I know what everybody's saying right now
but I would just appreciate a little
more detail I mean it's just flat round
numbers 20,000 15,000 it just looks
like but there's no actuals I think if
we just had actuals you know for
something from last year over the years
and it just seems like remember they
don't have a Treasurer bill you know I
agree with you completely it's just just
broad brush no detail and again we
harped on Valerie we want detail detail
detail but right here it's just broad
brush that's why I asked those questions
bill I agree with you I tried to
understand it's an empty building we
don't have people in there every day
those are my ways of saying the same
thing yeah we're and tear but no one's
ever there a fire call comes in all go
out new bathrooms right and again I
support this and yeah my hats off to all
these volunteers I would just like to
see a little more $20,000 for billing
maintenance I'm like okay agreed good
point I know I just I know I think we
need to about a resolution for it bill
you know how do we get better detail I
agree I think you say the same thing to
Wally that You' said to Valerie where's
the detail but again I support the fire
department and I don't want I do too you
know the next time there's a fire and
it's in my house they're not gonna show
up I don't know but I just think holy
crap there's no detail here we should
ask how does this get paid Eric there
must be some kind of account I would
think if I this is me if I was the
treasurer and we were having a meeting
like this or anybody I could run the
report that goes with this like I are we
supposed to ask for that like Bill
brings up a good point there must
be there's account lines I just want to
there's account lines that are attached
to all of this because I think this is
Town money there should be a report in
the system like if I was doing a report
at my school I'd say okay let me run a
report of you know Fire Commission let's
do the expenses let's put it in Eric you
want to go ahead and respond because
it's not in our system right so sure so
the fire department
has their own checking account the town
of Andover makes two payments a year to
the fire department and at the end of
the year they send us their
reconciliation to be placed in with the
audit we do not reconcile them
independently as a town they are their
own essentially entity but why I mean
I'm sure we're all GNA say this why is
that a require to me I would think the
leaders up here need to see all of that
and then that's just easy that there's
no oversight of what's being spent we're
not complaining we've all given them
their flowers there isn't oversight that
oversight just isn't you it is the board
of fire Commissioners just like the and
Library I'm a volunteer Eric not my
questions aren't
confrontational right I'm just giving a
lot of time to my volunteer position
here and I piggybacked on what you know
just because I want to ask questions are
because like everyone said I don't
oversight so you're saying they can't
the town can't ask for this it's just
the fire whatever you just said that
oversees them they say yes or no but the
town supplies the
funds I mean
theoretically the town could take all of
that inhouse and cut all of the checks
for the fire department we could cut all
of the checks for the
library um you know for that matter we
could cut all of the checks for the
school but we don't
um if the board of Finance made a
decision that you wanted to bring all
that in house you know we would start
down that process but we're going to
need more
you we don't have the Personnel to do
that right now so that would be
something you know we would have to
discuss in terms of that's a it's a good
discussion that's all I want is a good
discussion I didn't know that until
today and I've been on the board and I
put a lot of time in I knew that when
there was trouble and I don't mind
saying that out loud that you it had
broken away and AES now does theirs
because of some of the audit trouble and
all of that and I don't want to get into
the Weeds on this but I didn't know that
the Fire Commission or that the library
did their own it just seems like if we
have a treasure and we have an assistant
that it'd be easy oversight of the money
for those two things so I learned again
tonight I I never pretend to know all I
didn't know that I know AES had trouble
and then you broke off and gave them the
that responsibility did anyone else know
that I didn't know that no I did know
that yeah I knew it yeah okay febrary
budget is a fairly small budget this is
you know a bigger
budget so I'm not sure that tonight is
the right time to talk no it's not I but
I learned and I don't want to keep maybe
needs to be looked
at and again to Eric's Point 167,000
seems like a deal like you say compared
to one f one uh what do you call it
state trooper I'm just saying it doesn't
like we have any at all it's just
$20,000 again for building maintenance
it just seems like a lot but for people
that are never there but I agree it up
later on I agree that's all I just would
love to see a little more detail but
that's fine so Eric when they get
audited they run over to the Fire
Commission and they have to bring over
all the the receipts and all of that no
the the Fire Commission gives us all of
that to pass off to the auditor yes okay
okay that's it I don't want to make it a
big deal no I like to learn more thank
you thank you thank
you okay I'll stop sharing this then if
we're kind of done with
this
okay so the next agenda item would be to
go into executive session so Joan this
is your request you want to make the
motion to go into executive session I
make I make the motion to go into exec
session as a board first and it's it has
nothing to do with Eric or I want to
make that publicly said um I just wanted
to to bring him in after I kind of want
to say a couple things to the board and
what oh here I am like take an oath
sorry um is that okay I mean how are we
doing this yeah yeah we make a motion to
move into executive session um then
everyone would need to agree and at this
point it's just going to be the board
and
add Eric back in um so Eric do you need
to give me ability to host then or
co-host yep you are now the host so you
can do whatever you want the only thing
I would suggest is that whenever you go
into executive session you state the
reason why because you don't have un to
go into executive session so why don't
you go ahead and um yeah that's that's a
good point so Joanne do you want to
State make a and state the reason I'd
like to make a motion to go into
executive session because I have just
some
Personnel issues that involve finance
and that's the reason the board of
Finance is you know having an executive
session um yeah to discuss a couple
things with the board and then um then
we'll go back out of the meeting we can
call Eric in whatever we decide to
do okay anybody second
one second I saw Louise's hand up first
okay Louise second saw any
discussion I just want to say because
we're respecting anybody that could get
discussed or any items that I just want
to bring forth you can't say in public
we're being we're on TV so but he wants
you know I want to be fair to the public
that watches these meetings yeah that's
one of the few reasons we can go into
executive session so all right all those
in favor I any opposed any exstension
okay we'll move into executive session
we're going to stop recording now we
will start recording uh when we come out
of executive session and uh everyone
will be placed in the waiting room
except for the uh Board of Finance okay
right Mark and you're the one who asked
to stop the recording yep got it peace
this
stuff okay we'll go ahead and continue
then all right thank you everybody uh
that discussion is concluded no action
to be taken at this point in public um I
think that takes us to item 5A which is
review of budget to actual we kind of
need Eric for that one
yeah um I looked at it briefly didn't
have a lot of time but uh did take a
look at I don't know if anybody had any
specific
questions I'll be right
back
yeah un I didn't
five minutes but yeah get to do as much
as I wanted to with that today I think
we got yesterday or late yeah yeah
unfortunate on my end
but we're already at March right so we
have three more I know it's crazy right
three quar of the Year through this this
fiscal year I mean that one me lost LGE
what's that that one meeting we lost is
just you know it was so tight already I
know I know I know no but while we're
waiting for Eric this would be a good
question to bring up because I was
thinking of this today we were talking
about the um we have this meeting is our
regular meeting we have the hearing next
week and um the hearing Mark is we'll
have members of the public and we'll
we'll take their feedback from the we
won't have a document that goes to the
public yet just saying it for everyone's
you know those what I found out when we
were trying to figure out the date for
the meeting and what needs to be
prepared ahead of time is they won't do
the actual spreadsheet of our final
budget you know probably a couple days
before the 9th you know so we we do have
we don't have a lot of time we're we're
now we're running out but we do have
next week to have the hearing get some
feedback and still make some additions
Corrections whatever we need to do yeah
typically what we do is we have this
thing pretty close to where we want
going into the hearing right we have the
hearing um listen to any public comment
and at at that point we can entertain
motions to change any line items if you
don't then we typically will pass a
recommended budget that'll be presented
to the town meeting so we typically do
that at the same meeting we have the uh
public hearing okay and I really don't
want to schedule another another meeting
if if I know but I feel personally
because we missed one that that's where
we are you know I think I feel like
we're a little bit of a week behind of
where we should be and I mean we'll get
there I hear what you're saying and it's
it's I think it can be fast with what we
want to do like you said we can make
motions and do things then but as far as
the preparing the budget the paper
things like that I was told you know
that final spreadsheet when we have all
the corrections and make sure it's
correct um then they print it out for
the
meeting yep that's right Eric where we
are is the budget actual didn't see any
red flags there I don't know if you have
anything you need to
discuss uh you're on mute
Eric nothing significant at this point
overall we're
okay okay there is a major
concern um there is also the check
register that's in there if anybody has
any questions on
that I had a lot of questions on that
actually okay
um let me get my book you are you GNA
bring that up marked by any chance or no
uh I can sure that would be great it
just makes it easier for me
anyway um I looked at it earlier
but it's nice if we look at it
together um
I should probably know the answer to
this but in the beginning well let's
see I'll go by date January 13th what is
the liability check
EFTPS January 13th hang on January 13th
liability check EFTPS it's a' 06
Connecticut
company uh
uh
9,480 is
[Music]
so it's a good question it's one of
our
uh what's the uh what's the
company Liz what's the line I'm sorry
it's a January
13th uh liability check the name of the
company is
FPS 9,000
9,482 uh off the top of my head I don't
know looks like it's one of our standard
a payments so I'm liability EFT is
probably electronic funds transfer PS
might be the recipient so yeah
my gut feeling tells me that that is
probably
our no it can't be that I don't know
I'll
check um and then January
27th oh same thing it comes again
January
7th the same amount yeah y little more
money
um then there's leading Ed construction
what is that 6,39 for on
129 so that is the final
reconciliation of the bills between the
town and the contractor the general
contractor for the community
center
okay
okay um and then I wonder if this is s
is related to January 29 restaurant
equipment Paradise is that Community
Center too uh that is for the community
center that is the kitchen equipment for
the community
center
okay
um and then I saw a fund transfer
January
31st anybody else feel free to jump in
I'm un I didn't have a chance to to go
you're you're asking questions I I don't
have any questions I didn't have the
time this coule okay I have an answer
for your first question there I just
looked up the
EFTPS and it's a it's a service offered
free by the US Department of Treasury
the site allows clients and partners to
exchange files for a single debit State
Levy or insolvency
applications so is that like a general
type of charge that we have to pay that
is a lot of
money sure is no that's a payment to
somebody yeah even though it's PS okay
all
right I mean there's a there's a invoice
or a fund or some type of account
reference on there so she'd have to
check it out and see all right and then
asking about this transfer on February
3rd the funds transfer 14,000
no January
31st a million a million 400 looks like
yeah oh yeah
oh is like yeah so those funds are what
that's us putting money into and out of
the stiff account that's what I figured
yep that much money yep so we hold as
much money as we can in the stiff
account we transfer back and forth when
we have
to okay
that's what the TC January 2025 is yeah
correct
okay
okay um and then on February 12th no
that's not
that's that can't be because it wouldn't
be an odd
number TC oh TC is tax collector so
that's money that's going into the
general fund from yeah it's a positive
amount positive amount deposits from the
the tax collector oh okay yep that's not
money back in in the 501 that is the the
501,000 that would be one of the
payments for ECS or educational cost
sharing you're talking about a 131 here
and that's a plus again to pay yeah yeah
so it's payment from the state
okay okay um
what is the US Postal Service for
$500 so we have a bulk mail postage
account uh that we have to put money
into regularly whenever we send out uh
either Every Door Direct or other
mailings to town
residents so okay so we run a pretty big
postal fee every
year
okay um and I'm wondering why why
there's a 367
fee uh bill for Andover Pizza on
February 12th because if there was a
party I wasn't
invited you got it 10 years older that
probably would have been one of the
senior luncheons 10 years
older years old probably 30 years older
for you Liz but wa wait what's 30 years
older yeah you will be invited to
those I'll give you a compliment yes oh
oh thank you to Young about those things
you're way too young to be thinking
about thanks thanks wish I I wish that
was true okay
so so you think that was a senior center
thing or senior thing I'm assuming that
was an expense for the senior Cent
senior senior lunch is what that is yeah
probably it's about the right
amount um oh and then there's um on
February 25th
there's three
um February 25th there are three bills
three payments for
$17.99 one to Andover congregational one
to the scouts and one to Andover food
pantry sure
so the town is the fiscal sponsor for
something called cart which is collect
andover's recyclable Treasures
so when you take your bottles and cans
to the uh transfer station those get
turned into the Redemption Center the
money comes to the town the
town
semiannually Cuts checks back to the
organizations that actually do the
work so that's not tax dollars that's
them uh the town the fiscal sponsor for
the group that does that oh that's
interesting I never knew about that
that's
cool um and what is on the next line
what's Avenue Enterprise
Solutions so that is the software in use
by the town clerk's
office then annual
subscription you know uh well there's
annual subscriptions and then there's
occasional costs depending on what
they're doing um they handle all the
the uh they're basically the records
keeping group the records keeping firm
for the town clerk for all the
electronic
records economy home I'm sorry go ahead
Mark no I was just asking if there's any
others yeah there's a lot here economy
Home Improvement what's that for economy
Home Improvement
was part of finishing off the kitchen in
the community room we basically had uh
one large Bill and that was to the
equipment supplier and two smaller bills
one was to a carpenter the other one was
to the plumber that hooked everything up
okay so that represents the Carpentry
Services for that
project who's Nathan Jacobson associate
it's Nathan Jacobson is the town
Consulting
engineer um we pay them for a whole
range of things um one they're doing the
design work for the recreational
field uh improvements and and getting
that to be a bitable project um secondly
they are doing the design work for the
bridge replacement for uh Long Hill
Road so we pay them for both and and
just looking at it I can't tell you
exactly which pool that particular one
is going to it gets allocated in
different pools depending on what
they're I I just like to be able to
recognize who it is sure um and then Fe
March 5th Cargill Cargill Inc who are
they yeah they're are they're are salt
supplier actually oh yeah we're into
them for a pretty big tune every year
for
salt okay
yep Circa we buy around two million
pounds of salt for down roads every
year oh there's only
anybody else question the yeah the
QuickBooks payroll service that's on
March 11th is that payment to
employees or is that so it's
27,999 is that you'll see those
periodically every every yeah that's
couple weeks that's that's payment to
employees because we don't list the
direct deposit for each individual check
okay so all right that's what I kind of
thought it was I was hoping that's what
it was yeah y I was hoping we weren't
um paying this company that much money
is what I was no QuickBooks is our
payroll service we actually
have it's kind of annoying but we have
two things we have a Time Clock service
and then we have uh QuickBooks
because when we switched to QuickBooks
we didn't want to from uh a company
called Prime pay we didn't want to have
to buy all new time clocks and go
through it so we still pay Prime pay
just for the fingerprint scanner time
cards or time verification system and
then we do payroll and
QuickBooks
okay um I I'm think I'm good
with everything else unless anybody else
has anything other questions from
anybody again we can always if you have
specifics later you can always come back
and drop Eric an email and you can look
it up what up by
me no cover quite a bit thank
you okay our next uh agenda item
then uh will take us to the uh new
business over
expenditures see
where do we have anything in here Eric
listed specifically yeah we do yeah we
have a single overe expenditure right
now in the senior center
programs um basically the original
budget was
3,000
and um
so that wasn't really under Tessa's
control until January
1st and the problem is is that
they uh ran up a really big Bill at the
Christmas party um which decreased the
amount of money available in that pretty
significantly um so that one one I
thought it was appropriate to Grant a
request to run that back up to, 1500
uh or add an additional 1,500 because
the budget Tess was working on you know
got blown out of the water by one large
bill that was not under her
control where did that money come from
the
1500 well it'll probably just
either at the end of the budget process
if there's Surplus in other areas of the
senior budget it would will get
transferred in from there first um and
if not then it will either be taken from
contingency or based on a recommendation
from the treasur it'll be taken from
another department that's
over under this is really just
informational for us at this point
correct correct so if you remember Pere
policy you know individual line items up
to $2,000
over I'm allowed to sign for them beyond
that it's out of my control and I have
to forward it to board of Selectmen or
Board of Selectmen and board of
finance and then what we would do at the
end of the year end of the fiscal year
uh we would T typically take all of the
small uh movements between funds and uh
line items and just approve them in at
one spell
swoop okay okay any further questions
for Eric on
this
okay
Kim no
no okay and next up we have the uh
request for the uh elevator uh upgrade
so I think you were all copied on this
letter this is from the superintendent
or I'm sorry the uh Board of Ed um
there's a explanation of of a upgrade
that they want to do to their elevator
um this is used every day blah blah blah
it's an aging system so they basically
want to upgrade it to current control
systems for about
$22,000 so it's not inexpensive um so
this would be a transfer from the
capital account um
so you know it doesn't affect our budget
in any way in order affect any of the uh
Town specific accounts but they're
asking uh for approval to to make this
transfer the only question I had Mark
can are we up for questions yet yep go
ahead it's up for discussion
so now so it's a repair right so it's
not a purchase or anything like that
it's a
repair correct are we I think you call
it an
upgrade upgrade they've got older older
you know older control systems that as I
well know often these things will they
you nurse them along until you can't and
sometimes you're caught in the middle of
having to try to do something but um so
basically they're trying to upgrade
older control boards components which
you can't service anymore it's just the
way of the world um to a newer control
system is this probably allows them to
avoid um
you know replacing the uh the system but
it allows you know they can they can
upgrade the the hardware that they have
there
so and I guess I was just going to ask
the people that are experts in that kind
of field because I know nothing about it
does it seem fair and
reasonable um because I'm just reading
it as we go and I read it before I'm
just refreshing my memory we are asking
the BF to vote to approve the transfer
of the money uh oh sorry
we do have TK elevator as our
maintenance contractor
okay so and know the quality of their
service one company failed to issue a
competitive quote saying so this this is
fair and reasonable for anybody that
knows these kind of items I guess is my
question um I'm not I'm not an expert at
all in this I can only relate one story
we just had um an elevator repaired at
the church I go to it was $100,000 to
have this elevator repaired I don't know
what was wrong with it I don't know what
they did to it it's not a new elevator
but it was $100,000 to get this elevator
working again after it quit the bed so I
I really don't know if this is a good
price but it
seems not bad compared to what we just
spent at our church for elevator repairs
so I I really don't know other than that
um is 12 for bid the only that was my
question as well it looks like they
worked with three different people here
they got quotes fromone aligned and
TK right but they didn't they didn't
provide those oh they didn't provide
those other bids which we've seen with
other projects usually all the bids are
included yeah I think it would be
helpful to see
them and I don't recall I was talking
about this at CIP or anything um so I
have nothing to add I don't have any
expertise at all with elevators so
yeah I mean no idea I'll I'll just say
that from my standpoint it looks
reasonable they've got a history with a
vendor you know I have no reason to
doubt that they wouldn't do the right
thing with their own money as money is
really for the school Capital thing so
you know I personally if it was a town
thing I'd want to see the other the
other things but I'm I'm going to leave
that fiduciary function to the board of
that I guess with you know with their
fund I I think it's it's okay I'm you
know they've got got to vested interest
in preserving as much of that as they
[Music]
can I think the amount is reasonable
especially after what bill just said
yeah three or four years ago we got a
quote to put a little tiny elevator to
do a you know have access to our second
floor at work and it was like 150,000
for a new one so 100,000 to repair one
just makes my hair C I can't even
imagine what it would be like put a new
one in
now I actually think was 140,000 to be
honest with you but I just this just
seems cheap to me but not cheap but
reasonable yeah
right and it's you know if you look at
the actual explanation it's not that
it's
malfunctioning you know it it's that
they have an obsolete control
board right so that's why it's
cheaper um which good you know if that
keeps its lifespan going you know I'm
fine with it proactively trying to
upgrade it replace yeah I think it makes
a lot of sense I would make the motion
if I could to approve it to approve the
29080 okay Rob seconds any further
discussion all those in favor say I I I
I okay any
opposed Kim okay any abstentions
no we still have Louise right I can't
see him I don't see Louise either I
don't see Louise did she leave us no oh
there she is there she is there you are
Louise you're
back okay you voted yes right yes I
would see more detail okay motion passes
six to one thank you
everybody okay so we go on to the next
item which is there's the uh work repair
blah blah
blah okay uh so this is
[Music]
uh this is the request to uh move the a
AES Surplus to the capital
funds I'm flipping between screens here
so three so the audit completed we have
$36,988
Surplus I actually want to make one
point here yeah just so that you're
aware is that what this letter says is
they have
$360,000 Surplus above and beyond the 2%
yeah the 2% so they actually have a
$440,000 surplus
what you do with that information is up
to you but I think it's actually more
than that I think it's 455,000 if you do
the math I I haven't seen the report
but if you do the math
it's it's it's a lot it's like a
10.5%
surplus is any of that Eric and I don't
know if you know this but is any of that
due to um that came in
or I
don't I don't know anything you don't
know well you know a lot that I don't
know
Eric not related to the school I'm sorry
that's not my the one thing that is good
about this like we've all
said um with having the
Surplus go into transfer it into the
capital fund right the AES Capital fund
like they they had talked about I just
want to make sure I'm reading it yep and
yeah just I had a little copy over here
and that was the goal that we had had
when we had our meetings together yep
you know in enticing having money
Transit forward in there for the
projects that are
upcoming um yes it's a big surplus of
course so that that is nice that we're I
think Rob had mentioned this in a
meeting it's kind of the trust issue
that we can transfer These funds into
that fund because there's projects
coming up big projects coming up yeah
especially for this year you know and so
it's one of those things where it seems
like a big Surplus but it's not a bad
thing this year right it worked out in a
good year it worked out in a good year
but yeah it does seem like a lot of
money and again I would like to
know if there was grants or whatever but
I guess I'd just be happy that we have
the money to pay for some of these big
projects I think you know yeah my take
on it was you know this is this is kind
of our agreement that any any surplus we
would move in if we we would see this
consistently like over a second year
then I think that's something that the
public needs to be aware of when we're
setting the school budget
right that you know I mean it's not a
bad thing to have basically a capital
fund for the school it's a good thing
but it needs to be baked in and
understood you know where that's coming
from how how how how much it is what the
capital plan is
you know which you know we still
probably need to go more detail
on I'm personally in favor of approving
it because that's our agreement um but
it is something that we have to kind of
keep an eye on yeah do we have to have a
motion to approve it I think we do yeah
I make the motion to approve it okay
anybody second
it I'll second the motion to move the
AES C you know Surplus money from or the
amount stated there the capital account
to the AES capital account thank you
yeah further
discussion hearing none all those in
favor say I I I I any
opposed any
extensions okay Liz is going to abstain
so the motion uh passes six to0 to one
thank
you okay
now we come to our favorite
subject back to where we were from last
week back to where we were 772 we
already talked about the Fire Commission
um Eric's got some stuff information
here required for the budget is
recommended for Capital stuff so Eric
did you want to discuss this material
you added here so technically this is a
board of fin
responsibility to produce this every
year for the
budget um that is one of the charter
outlined responsibilities you have to do
a recommendation for the capital
projects for the you know upcoming
fiscal year and then what capital
projects you're planning on for the next
five years so I've basically given you
the outline of that for what we have
kind of underway now
um I don't know what you want to do with
it some years you've given it to the
public haven't done it in a while though
so but you are technically supposed to
yeah this is our
responsibility that is your you know
it's something we haven't really spent a
lot of time on during the budget
presentation but Eric's right in the in
theuh Charter discusses that that's part
of the part of the budget is the
discussion of the capital plan
is that something that should be um
brought forward at the budget meetings
or hearings or is that for a different
time no it should be done then okay yeah
yeah I mean you should be you should be
basically giving them the PDF document
of the budget and then the
recommendation for capital projects that
you're
funding um that's what you're you should
be that's what we should be giving to
the public at the meeting
so Eric Eric um you've explained this to
me very well um a number of
times maybe in some public meetings too
and I'm not sure for the benefit of
everybody here if they're quite aware of
how this works with these um Bridge
Replacements and culverts but you do
have a plan in place that
um I may I'll let you explain it but
that we we have huge grants that really
pay for this but we had to have the
money UPF front to get their work and N
reimburse so the money that we had to
save up front so we could do these
projects and they get reimbursed will
also after these projects are done the
first two Bridges will go into Culver
repair that you list further down the
line so we'll have the money it's not
like it to be new taxation right this is
really money that's already accounted
for if you will and put in place to do
these
projects yeah the two big bridge
projects which are Bunker Hill and Long
Hill Road
anything from the federal government
canceling the federal local bridge
program those bridges are fully paid for
um you know both design and construction
but the town is obligated to pay the
contractor and then seek reimbursement
from the state and federal government so
we have to have the funds to be able to
make the swing payments and then get
paid back um which right now the plan is
basically
we have a Permanent Fund or a capital
fund called The Bunker Hill Bridge fund
um and we have a second one which is
basically the bridge and Culvert fund we
plan to tap both of those right now
because we're in in construction on the
Bunker Hill Bridge um and as of this
week we will paid you know roughly
$80,000 so we're just at the very
beginning stages of construction
um you know that's what that's for as
far as the smaller culs currently the
way that works is it is a 50%
reimbursement from the state of
Connecticut so the town pays half of the
cost of that um and those are big nuts
to crack because you know those those
things are stupidly expensive today
based on the
regulatory you know require IR ments you
have for what you're
replacing um I will say I've personally
been kind of working very hard lobbying
for the legislature to increase the
funding for that program and to increase
the reimbursement there is a uh a bill
in both the House and Senate currently
that will uh increase that the state
portion of the funding from 50% to
75% so if that goes through that will
probably if that does go through in this
legislative
session um depending on whether they
make it retroactive or not that will
save us about
$450,000 off of that project and as if
that's the case then I will put the
next you know failing Culver into the
system because we've got a bunch we have
to address addess I'm just doing it at
the limit at which we can fund it
inhouse if that makes
sense does thank you I had a follow-up
question to Eric because I think you did
a good job in I think it's the this goes
along with what you've put in the
capital
fund spreadsheets if I'm saying it
correctly I feel like you you gave us
the amount that's currently in the
account you gave us the projected budget
amount and then you combine them so that
we could see the total so corre I did
appreciate the work and and obviously
you know kind of it it spells a lot of
this out like you've told us like the
bridge and Culvert thing they're pretty
much spoken for um I want to say I know
I'm jumping ahead but it does have to do
with this but say like the Public Works
equipment we know that's spoken for way
at the beginning of our session so I
feel like you're extra ating maybe some
of that to put here for the public size
is that but in a in a much more it's
longer Yeah well yeah I mean we're you
can present this or not present this
it's up to you what you want to do it's
no I want to say I appreciate you taking
the time in doing this um and right
since I've been on the board like for
four years um you're I don't think we've
done this so
this level of detail now credit right
for putting it together but I would
think that we should all kind of take a
look at it and then just vote next week
or I don't not that we have to vote but
if we have any
suggestions again you know I like to
look at things ahead I I'm sure it's
good and it follows your your thing what
do you think Mark is that a good
suggestion yeah I mean I I think we you
know this is a lot to to present in the
meeting I think it will make people's
eyes glaze over um but we should hit the
highlights and we should we should
probably have a handout that details
this so I think the detail is good um
but I think that we should in the
presentation itself maybe just the
highlights perfect very this is a
handout that's what I mean but we should
all proofread what we're you know since
we're respons I think it's a good thing
to read
through specific questions if we're if
it's coming from us and Eric says I so
appreciate that he put this together for
us then we should all kind of proofread
it over the next week and have any edits
or say good job rubber stamp it yeah
yeah and if anybody's got any specific
questions about it it wouldn't be a bad
idea to send it around to Eric in an
email and copy the board because next
week with the with the hearing um
usually we don't get a ton of public
comment or input but it could take some
time and and who knows whats we wanted
wrap up yeah
yeah sorry interupt you there Mark I
have a feeling with some of the higher
numbers maybe we will get some input
this year but you never know if people
don't know the process they they might
or they've been following along and they
don't have any major concerns you know
the real the real rubber hits the road
in the town meeting of course so right
no so I thanks again good job Eric thank
you for giving this to us I really
appreciate your work and then I'll you
know I won't try to read it from here
with my glossy guys as you all said but
we'll take a look at it and if we have
questions or suggestions send them to
Eric or whatever I would just like to
add you know Eric excellent job
long-term planning that this town never
had before we had a Town Administrator
we we we just kind of let the roads
deteriorate to nothing in this town and
the amount of work that you've done I
think is
commendable out many years getting the
funding getting the grants and uh you
know the long-term approach that you've
taken to making sure that our roads have
been almost every Road in the town has
been redone and and looking at the roads
that have to be done the culs the
bridges the grants that you've been able
to secure um kudos to you I think a
great job yeah we we did have a Town
Administrator but between that
administrator prior to Eric and the
previous board Boards of Selectmen not a
lot got done nothing got done yeah so
this is this is a huge huge step forward
for the town so some good good movement
on every all front so no so we
appreciate like we have a job to do he
has a job to do everyone has a job to do
so no this is awesome having this so I
want to give them his flowers along with
when I if I make any suggestions so
there you go thank you for that and
getting it prepared for us yeah thanks
so so yeah if the board could review
that as uh as Joanne suggested and and
uh you know keep a lookout and if
there's any specific questions that you
want to have answered it would be
helpful to do that in advance of the
next uh meeting just so we get a chance
to kind of see that and digest it I
don't like to go through a lot of
details if we can avoid it during the
public hearing as said just because we
want to allow opportunity for public
comment and then any final tweaks we
want to make to the budget so we can
pass uh if we can so and Mark remind me
do they come on during public speak and
they'll you know they have they have
their Forum to say what they think
people that will appear and then we do
our thing and then come on again yeah
yeah because it's it's it's an
informational
meeting it's not the town budget meeting
right which has a different procedure
yeah yeah so normally I think what I
would do um we've done in the past is
you know give a few of the highlights
just in case people haven't seen it you
know we'll we'll show what the end
result is what the bottom line is what
you know what you know uh the mill rate
is going to be um talk about the process
and then basically just give everybody a
an opportunity to speak uh if we have a
lot of people demeaning I I tend to just
try to set some guidelines we we had set
some long time ago but basically you
know try to keep your comments to three
minutes or less and if you you know if
you agree with you know the person went
before you just say that you know say I
agree with her her you know this
important Point without restating things
at nauseum typically it's not a problem
but just it helps I think so
my I guess followup I mean we're still
in the midst of our discussions tonight
clearly um because we haven't gotten
there
but you know so that's the forum for
next week and then if we have set things
that we want to act on right then we can
act on them and make the changes right
then as
well yeah I think I confirmed enough I
just want everyone you know we do have
new members and everything and because
meeting we can do things tonight but
obviously we're back going to go read
some more prep some more make some
motions before we do some final oh so
you're saying next week during because
this is my first rodeo next week during
the virtual meeting if we wanted to make
a motion to change anything we could
absolutely it functions like a normal
meeting really like we we do the
presentation we get feedback and then we
basically have our normal meeting
afterward yeah and if there's minimal
feedback and we're comfortable with the
budget we pass it along if there's stuff
to address we address it then but
basically we we the the presentation is
front loaded but then we still have a
meeting and we can the board right yeah
so the meeting continues after the
public hearing portion of okay did not
understand oh you didn't know that list
yeah she's new you know you don't know
that no no I agree absolutely that's why
I was kind of I wanted everyone to feel
comfortable that we still can change
this you know
there obviously because we have we
haven't really talked much about we've
had so many meetings that we haven't
really done a lot of changing so we're a
little bit I just want everyone to feel
comfortable that we can that's
all if we I was just G to say you know
obviously because we the presentation at
the front end you know you don't want it
to be a super long meting but we do have
that opportunity to take in the feedback
and then do stuff so yeah okay all right
thank you yeah tends not to be super
long uh but we do have that opportunity
right okay I mean again we all have to
remember this got pushed forward for us
we're so early we we're having the same
amount of meetings but it's earlier so
yeah yeah y well and we lost a week and
we lost I think that's probably the
biggest yeah that had a big impact right
so so we we'll do this meeting and then
if we have to yeah so where are we at
now speaking of which I think probably
what we want to do is go back to the
budget spreadsheet um I'm trying to
remember looking right now where we
where we left off and I think that
we got down through Public Works uh
maybe transfer
station we talked I feel like we talked
about tipping fees did so I think yeah
Eric can I ask a while he's getting that
can I ask a question has was there
change I didn't get to click on it today
was it updated today at all before our
meeting do you know if there's been many
changes no there's one dated the 30th is
the most recent one that's the one I'm
showing right here um and I think
we uh maybe the 20th not the 20th 30th
hasn't happened yet yeah yes we'd be way
ahead sorry I knew
it it's been a week for me
too and Eric one followup to that while
we're getting settled was the health
insurance changes and when we look at
the mill rate and all that kind of stuff
eventually when we get through I just
wondered if it's at our our new things
because everything's been updated since
last meeting yes the health insurance
information is in there and update thank
you right we'll try to pick a color
tonight so that it's easier to
yep yep so we had I believe gotten
through uh Fire Marshall we talked about
Animal Control I'm not sure if we did
senior citizens and
transportation I feel like we were I
think we may have we did yeah
yeah and I think we got yeah in h ahm we
voted V we discussed that yep okay so I
think that did take us down here to
boards and commissions that's right got
yeah I should put a big gray line
through the middle of this or something
so this is the
um this is the uh selectman salary line
so we're proposed uh staying flat but
there's an estimated amount it's more
than the budget for this year no that
that's
incorrect I think the treasurer was just
confused and didn't realize the first
selectman doesn't draw one so that's
yeah I was gonna say he never takes it
he never has okay so we're gonna leave
that at 4,800 correct doesn't seem very
controversial uh the board clerk wages
up
slightly that for just covering meetings
and stuff Eric that is just the the
Flatout cost given how we pay for
meetings it just it's totally based on
how many meetings and special meetings
they have understood just just ask it
yep
yep federan committee slight increase
250 I mean it's 50% but it's tiny amount
of money um is it just based on
experience yeah that's based on you know
what they've actually been expending in
year over year so the if you look at the
note here it says that 12 months date
7:35 I missed the note okay then that
answers my question right there yeah
their biggest single cost is the
Veterans Day celebration but they do
other things also that they spend some
money out got
it yeah they have to go listen to my my
daughter try to play the tpet I mean you
got to pay people you know wait wait
your daughter gets paid to do that no
the people who listen to her should be
paid oh I see
okay sorry this is a matter public
record Megan will get me later don't
worry Board of Finance clerk wages again
this is kind of based on history our
meetings we've got the 12 months data at
1,800 bucks so we'll keep that uh we had
we've previously just ended up not uh
budgeting any legal uh legal expense
directly for the board of finance that
was gone back and forth on that a couple
of years but decided it just would be
something we we haven't used it is a
reality well we have used the attorney
in a couple cases where I asked for I
asked for legal opinions but he just
charged it to the town we just continued
the budget he's on
retainer the concern was that if we
somehow needed to have our own
representation you know yeah the concern
was if we had a conflict directly with
the board of Select they weren't going
to release the money that was the issue
and yeah we basically let that go
because it's just not really a thing
yeah hope it doesn't ever become a
thing uh Board of assessment appeals
slight increase for the for the I'm
sorry we're on the Conservation
Commission that's basically flat no
change Board of assessment
appeals um yeah no real change same
amount so we're uh we got a note here
potential request for assessor training
course okay so if that happens
great uh zoning board of appeals board
clerk zba basically flat no big change
there training and increase for
training requ use board under the CT law
new line item okay
yep Bill make comment no I was just
going to say that uh three zba members
went to an eight hour class on Saturday
so I'm sure like part of that came out
of that
350 F 350 that's where it would come
from okay y Economic Development
commission uh so this is up quite a bit
this is in include $5,000 for addition
additional welcome to and over signs
oh people
like oh go ahead and we put I think
we've we've kind of staggered the
production and implementation of some of
these signs over over a period of years
I think was the intent
so personally am okay with it
but the sign is very very nice I think
that's exactly what I heard at the BOS
meeting that they liked the first one so
much and they wanted to get another one
for another area of town right yeah yeah
like one coming into town and one
leaving town so the signs are really
nice I think they're yeah
mhm okay U Memorial Day commission sum
increase there the note here is per
Carol some of the military flag holders
need to be replaced okay so they've got
some equipment that needs to replace
it's just an request of $600
increase happy to do that
[Music]
personally um and by the way if anybody
has any questions wants to stop me as
we're going through this just just say
so but I just think mostly we've seen or
they're they're minor um Recreation
Commission slight increase uh
$200 two portable facility new contract
okay um I have a comment on the
community garden community garden I I
heard um in one of the last Board of
selectman meetings they were talking
about it and they said are they no
longer um donating this food to the food
pantry and I think the answer was no and
so Jeff Maguire said yeah well then why
are we funding that no
actually I'll speak to that because I
was kind of going thank you oh okay um
that was the thing that was kind of set
up last year um Jeff had just started
that process it wasn't set up to do that
it was set up to actually have people
have their own plots what they do with
their produce is up to
them so this year they're actually
having people get their own plots but
it's it's not on there stating that you
have to give it to it's not there's no
mention at all actually for where
that
goes so we don't really need to be
funding it then right what I said later
about
W so Joanne oh you're kind of breaking
up Lise I couldn't understand what
you're saying right there yeah there are
things that has done that he's been
exceptional about and there are things
that still need to be done and I think
he's requesting some additional monies
for that I don't know the
whole who's who's he who's uh Jeff um
Ballard Jeff Balor
yes so you know they're trying to keep
it sustainable
and they're working on it I mean Jeff
can probably give more details because
he kind of wrote up this whole thing
about what they actually did in the past
couple of
years I wonder if we could get that
right up so what does he spend the money
on yeah you do have that that was one of
the things that was available to you in
the shared Drive um if you want to see
it right now I'm more than happy if Mark
if you give me permission to share my
screen I can bring it up and you can see
what their budget proposal
was yeah there is so much in that shared
Drive holy
mackerel well that's there's a lot of
things that go into the budget so so
I'll stop sharing um okay and then you
well you can just go ahead looks like
you should be able to share Eric
okay okay so if you want to see what uh
you should be is that big enough for you
to see yes
okay so that is what they're
requesting oh I did notice they you're
were working on that rank collection
system right Eric in the back
there they they
are pump and fittings for water
collection winter R cover top
okay well that explains it I
guess yeah I mean why if it's seeds for
a community is I mean don't people isn't
the purp of that for people to go and
plant their own garden and enjoy their
own vegetables and whatever
exactly right so I don't I can see maybe
the big things if if it's his job to
keep it running maybe but why are we Pro
fiding seeds people should plant their
own stuff I don't know there's a lot of
things behind the scenes that need to be
done to prepare the plots and all that
and that's still something that that
group
does when people come in to use it yes
they have to go in and do the weeding
and all this other stuff but there's
like a maintenance type of thing that's
done by the uh committee
there and it costs cost some money to do
that and in but then but then the people
take the vegetables home for themselves
for their own
consumption trying to understand you're
just asking about the seeds right Liz
questioning yeah well I'm saying why why
is the town why is the taxpayer paying
for this if you know for people to go
grow a garden for me to go and grow a
garden over there so I can bring my
vegetables home that I guess that's
maybe the the crass way of saying I'm
just trying to wrap my brain around that
um I know in the past when they first
built it I was told that the point was
to donate a certain part of it to the
food um the and over the food
pantry um not necessarily I mean when
you see what it says package of seeds
for Community use if they have like a
plot or two like let's say the cup
scouts or somebody doing that then that
could be for that reason I don't know
what else they would do it for I agree
people should have their own seeds but
that says for Community use so I'm not
sure what that
means don't mean to be a kill Joy
but
we're oh go ahead B I just think we're
spending a lot of time we there's I
don't know it's not a lot of money we we
can take a you can take money somebody
we can make a motion to motion it
increase it decrease it increase it we
got to leave it alone we're good what's
and What's the total budget there again
3560 3560
so it is um this row 401 right here that
I've
highlighted
yep and that's I appreciate the
questions and information because I
don't know a lot about it either um are
the and just we can end up wherever
we're going Mark with this but is the
community use do they sometimes bring
children there I mean are we Pro ided in
it so kids can come plant things I have
no idea and you don't have to go deep
into it but um yeah I would recommend if
you have questions I'd be happy to take
them and go and Supply those to Jeff for
answers well you know I think what might
be helpful Louise is if if maybe he can
just do a little write up about this is
the community garden this is how it
operates this is the history this is
what we're trying to accomplish with it
it um how it's operated you know kind of
um you know so I think if we get an
overview like that you know do they do
they expect this kind of level of
funding going forward because looks like
$1,800 for a pump in fittings probably
aren't going to be needed next year
right so I would expect that once they
get over that hurdle then you know maybe
this drops in half so yeah so if he
could if he could kind of come up with
that ex that kind of explanation of what
of what they do why they do it who who
is served by it and you know kind of
what the what the goal is going forward
or if the budget's going to stay level I
think it would help us have an
understanding and context for for the
line I can I can talk to him about that
okay thanks
Louise okay you and then we can we can
take action on it now or we can wait
till next week and just hold a
placeholder and you know if we are
comfortable with it fine if otherwise we
can you know can adjust the line
that sounds
good okay say we just wait get the
explanation and then wait right unless
someone wants to vote tonight like gonna
make a motion I'll move on yeah
so okay Planning and Zoning commission
uh board clerk wages actually reduced
quite a bit I'm assuming that's probably
based on you know understanding of what
our need is going forward in history
that's good Legal Professional is up a
little bit that's bad hopefully let's
see what this says here the note says
ongoing litigation with the Gravel Pit
owner is driving up our legal costs
so okay yeah we got to cover ourselves
that' be my feeling about
it yeah and and two that legal and
professional line item covers more than
just the Planning and Zoning commission
that line
covers all of the land use commissions
and it's spendable both for engineering
advice and evaluation on plans so if the
Planning and Zoning commission is
reverse reviewing a commercial
application or subdivision application
they would review it both legally with
the town zoning attorney and they would
also send that to uh the engineering
firm for a review by the town engineer
so that covers all of those expenses
that's one of those ones that's highly
variable depending on what's going on in
town how much that gets
spent okay thank
you um and then we have uh training
going down assume not anticipated and
then we have the um mapping uh um
staying flat with the note that we had a
large mapping expense in 2425 and
apparently not expected 2526 so good
they're probably associated with the
uh maybe with the appraisals but well
that's associated with the plan of
conservation and development and one of
the things we realized with the
PD is that the partial map that we have
is out of date so right now we're
working with the mapping agency and it's
both the zoning commission the town
planner as well as the assessors so
we're trying to get everything all on a
correct partial map and that's basically
what we're trying to do right now and we
that should cover with this year's
budget yeah we're going to cover that
out of this year's budget um so we don't
need a big chunk for that next year
okay all right thanks
moving down to Inland Wetlands
commission we got a little reduction on
the blur clerk wages based on 12 months
data it's good slight increase in
training 100
bucks net reduction of
550 Town historian it's flat
$200 what do they use that for Eric I'm
sure I've asked that question before but
so it depends on the year like for
instance if you remember seeing all the
the pictures that are in the community
room those came from that way back when
um last year we tapped that budget to
produce a historical marker because it
was one of the things we were required
to do um by the state historic
preservation office in exchange for
allowing us to tear down the old uh
Community Center slf Firehouse so that's
that's pretty much under the control of
Scott yman the town
historian um you know he spends that
it's not a big budget but we do from
time to time spend money on that or on
them you
know y
okay all
right okay so we're through most of the
operating expenditures we get down to
the capital
before we go on to that yeah can I can I
um can we go up I have one thing to say
about the the small the little
Firehouse I know it's a very small small
budget but it's something else that I
heard in a board of selectman
meeting um and it's a very simple thing
but I'd like to make a motion to remove
that thousand for fuel and I'll tell you
why in The Old Firehouse here the five
yeah okay um on March 20th the board of
find wait minute no on on April
10th um I was told or I saw in a board
of Finance meeting I can't remember
which meeting it was now I'm going to
have to go back um it was said that
Scott was due to fill the oil tank in
The Old Firehouse which is minimally
heated um in the winter a fill is good
for 3 to four years so so it's du was
due to be filled in the 2425 budget so I
know it's not a big dollar amount but we
don't have anything in there for fuel
oil yeah I zeroed that out for the year
oh so the cost are for electricity in
the this electric what's the Thousand
but but hold on kind of the wrong spot
this is The Old
Firehouse this is the building that's
going to be torn down the only reason
we're still paying for the electric is
because we technically need that for the
asbest remediation contractor okay my
mistake I thought that was for for fuel
oil so we can move on thank you yeah if
you looked at the budget for the Old
Town
Hall uh which is that one you'll see the
the fuel item line was zeroed out okay
yeah but I was it was specifically
Firehouse so obviously it's been zeroed
so you took care of it thank you
okay okay and again down to Capital
um okay so the
revaluation keeping the uh
cost um at the same level and we we just
level fund this right Eric and then we
have to do the revaluation ever so often
so we tap that so for which for the O
under Capital Ral yeah yes so what
happens
is on a normal cycle the town has to do
reval every fifth year and depending on
what we whether we do what's called a
measure and
list um reval or whether we do like in a
bridged version you know our costs vary
but these days are running for a town
our size somewhere in the 80
to you know
$100,000 uh
range um we're actually putting reval
off for one year because the state in
their Infinite Wisdom decided they want
all the
counties uh to do their reval all the
towns within an existing County to do
their reval in the same year so they've
been adding a few years on on to try to
get them all synced up so our next reval
is starts uh one
year uh it would have been 2026 it is
now
2027 can I ask a question about that
then um since we basically fund this by
plugging the same amount of money in
every year to get to a certain figure
every five years if it's pushed off a
year do we would it make sense to drop
this a little bit because you have six
years to pay for it now it Rob right
like could you go to 15 instead of 165
you know and be okay yeah I I can't
answer that off the top of my head my
gut feeling says yeah you probably could
reduce that a little
bit um but you know the the problem
comes in when you get the bids back and
ultimately the part of the decision
making is whether we do a full measure
and list or whether we do The Abridged
uh reval um we did the full measuring
list the last time but unfortunately it
was right in the middle of covid so I
don't think we really got everything
done that should have been done um full
measuring list is you know significantly
not significantly but at least $20,000
more expensive than not okay well just
for the boards if
uh some basic math if you take that and
you extrapolate it out six years instead
of five it would be
13,750
so um you know we could potentially we
could leave it and have some buffer or
we could drop it a little bit and
probably not be in trouble probably uh
the 165 over five years gets you to like
82,000 is um and if Eric's right you
know that 880,000 kind of the low end
then maybe we leave it uh that's just my
thought guys just sorry to interrupt Rob
I mean we have to remember that we do
have money left over every year so I
don't think we're taking a huge chance
if we do try to reduce it a little this
year when we know we have you know
there's
beeny fund right right there's a 50k
usually we have so mean I would be
comfortable moving to reduce that to
15K it's not all the way down you know
but it it just you know save us a little
bit of money here and it it it makes
sense we'll go back to 165 obviously
once we're back on cycle yeah but for
now I'll second
that okay oh so this is the motion my
motion is to to reduce to
15 second the motion when we get to
discussion I'll ask a question okay okay
we're at discussion Rob what did you
tell us that it didn't you say
135 yeah so if you do the math um if you
do
165 right time five that's 82,500 you
divide that by
six it's
13750 yeah you're assuming no increases
I'm still leaving some play in there you
know I don't feel like thank you Rob I
don't feel like this is a big gamble
like we're talking this isn't one of our
$100,000 you know trucks
this is this is a tiny cut right I feel
comfortable with it but I I I'm probably
gonna say no because I want to go even a
little more I mean I feel like this is a
year where there's a big increase across
the board for a lot of stuff so let's
cut a chunk of this if we're not doing
it till 2027 if we feel like we can make
it up in a couple years we will you know
we well what figure would you prefer I I
would have gone right to the 135 I mean
this is 13 that's what you and I 137 rob
you said 13750 would be sorry 13750 yep
that would be just just the the math
14,000 I mean we can cut a couple here
you know I if if the rest of the board
wants to do that um I'm happy to amend
my motion to 14 in 15 we should we
should vote on the motion as stated yeah
what I'm saying what I'm saying is just
for the sake of discussion that I'm
comfortable if people want to go to 14
then I'm happy to you know have my
motion voted down and we Repose it yep
that's that's just my thoughts getting
the discussion out there now so if I
vote it down that's the reason I think
we could have gone a little deeper on
this small line yeah okay further
further discussion I agree that's my
discussion all those in favor say I I
I'll vote I to to turn down the motion
no the motion yes no or abstain the
motion is to reduce it to 15,000 if you
want to go you vote no no okay okay all
those in favor I'll vote Yes because I
proposed it but all those
opposed I oppos any
extenstions the motion does not pass we
can entertain any other motions Rob well
Joanne go right for It Go on I make a
motion that we cut this line to the
13750 for this given year
you have a second I'll second it second
seconds any further
discussion all those in favor say I I I
any opposed any
extensions okay hearing none the motion
passes and this goes to
correct there you go we got a couple
years in our favor there so
we'll how about purple Joan we'll make
that it's hard to read it though I don't
know yeah you want some contrast in
there go go orange or something there we
need a different orange yeah boy all all
the cool colors have been taken so I
know they're all
Blended I'm in a I'm G to go with that
blue I like that we can change it later
right there's our change yeah
okay Eric will just pop the numbers in
the revised spreadsheet anyway yeah okay
very good uh we got zero on the capital
uh planning of conservation
development uh
line um Insurance sever is
zero um funds currently has
28825 okay don't need to do that
contingency is level funded at 50,000
how much is in the contingency
now zero roll over it's not a capital
fund yeah right okay so do we have it's
in the capital section but it's it's
kind of recurrently funded and then
refunded but does it have is it used
every year Eric there's not an an
ongoing total for
this because I don't remember using
Contin goes into the goes into the uh M
um what's it called fund unexpended fund
Bal
I don't remembering contingency so every
year I feel like it's gone to the fund
balance so isn't that no we we've spent
out of contingency okay that was my many
of the years when I've been here yeah
and that's by the
way generally towns run at least a 1%
contingency um and we run far less than
a 1% contingency Okay so
I yeah I mean honestly I don't I
wouldn't want to cut that because that's
a pretty small figure but at the same
time it's also true that we've gotten by
many
years with that figure yeah like you
said one one
major 50k is
like yeah so I I would leave it y follow
up to that so the contingency is there
but we also have the Surplus every year
right where we have the fund balance
like you're saying the extra am I am I
categorizing it right so we've got a
contingency history we have right but so
so I can probably clarify so surpluses
come from two things they come from
either you got more Revenue than you
anticipated yeah or you had lower
expenses than you anticipated I mean one
of the things this town has been really
good about
is not trying to spend out all our
budgets at the end of the year only
spending what's necessary every a couple
times the board of Selectmen has wanted
a medium ticket item at the end of the
year um and we expended a lot of
contingency or other things to get that
um but remember when you're
doing transfers between
budgets if you have do a fairly large
transfer um because remember you
expenditures are only what's budgeted so
regardless of what the Surplus is my
responsibility is not to go over the
budgeted amount that the town has um you
know so the contingency is the way you
cover that that's that's basically your
float overall the budget your final
float yeah so I was just thank you Eric
and that's that's what I was trying to
understand so I'm just saying out loud
if we do have a big disaster like you
said the contingency is not the only
place we could draw from we would have
like the fund balance that's excess that
we've been accumulating might have to go
to a town meeting for it but yeah oh
right I I'm just trying to yeah no I'm
not saying we can just go do it we have
to make sure um so because I mean I
don't want to get stalled on this I
appreciate it yeah I just yeah it was a
good point I don't remember ever hearing
okay oh we went over we've got to use
contingency or I we have used it a
couple we've dipped into it a few times
but nothing I don't think we've ever
expended the full 50k but I could be
wrong Eric okay all right I know we're
going Thing by thing and then we can
talk about them if anyone has
ideas all right so that's talked out we
can we have the trans multi-use building
fund at
50k um level
loaded
and yeah could I ask I know that and
this is fine but what I did like about
this is and I printed them out for
myself because I have to be visual but I
feel like the thing that Eric did was is
there a tab somewhere where it kind of
show well sorry let's just do your it
can wait yeah yes there is there's so
there's the capital fund um worksheet or
spreadsheet all the proposed expenses
for that but I know that Mark is maybe
trying to get through this to give us
all of the amounts but what I liked was
that spreadsheet because obviously
there's certain ones that we would never
want to make any kind of motions or cuts
to and there might be others that we
could be open to and I commented you on
putting the things in but if Mark wants
to go through all this and then we could
open that because I think that gives us
a lot of info you get what's in there
now you get the proposed amount and then
you see the bigger amount yeah just a
thought well we can you know we can do
take a quick look if we want to I think
it would be
helpful I know off thep is this the
spreadsheet you're talking about the
capital yep yep um Eric had it as a
separate yeah Capital fund summary
that's it Capital funds some it's in
with the budget oh right and then on the
bottom sorry my eyes weren't going close
enough so if you want details on any
particular fund they're all tabbed out
there they're all in the tabs here I
mean we all we've looked at and what I
like is what's nice for example Mark do
you have I don't want to overtake but oh
good you have the current balance you
know which a lot of them are still there
because some of the work doesn't get
done till the spring and then you know
you have the next year whatever but it
but it helps us and you told us like
bridge and CTS they're all spoken for
Public Works equipment spoken
for um
yeah again gonna sit back and listen I
have a couple thoughts but I I can wait
till the end on the main page in Orange
on the main if you went back to the
budget and you looked at the the funds
the ones I put in Orange
were the ones that really are are truly
spoken
for so if you're going to cut please
don't cut those because those are how we
meet our obligations
yeah you can't cut to tanker we have a
lease engine tanker the Public Works
equipment and the bridg cover I Nam them
yeah no that's a good color code to just
tell us like those are bright lines uh
completely agree yep sorry thank you for
saying that yeah those are the ones that
are spoken for and I think I said it
yeah and we're making solid progress
year to year on the tree removals right
Eric uh that 50k is a good
figure it is um yeah we've made huge
strides
townwide
um you
know yes except for those darn trees at
the end of long hill there you know if
you drove around after the last storm it
wasn't just those couple of trees at the
end of long hill there are dead trees
Still Standing easily fund that at 100K
and you could easily fund that at 200k
uh that is one that I don't want touched
because I I am not proposing to touch it
that's where that's where the priority
in the I think we've done such a great
job with partnering with eversource and
you know kind of mobilizing with them at
the same day whatever and really
maximizing our impact that's been really
good um so no objections on my part I
just asked the question you know just
informationally but yeah of course so
let's let's if we could let's let's just
kind of take them in order I want to
make sure we hit them all i' like this
page my my fault no no it's good it's
all good it's all good discussion so
contingency I thumbs we're gonna leave
for now uh the multi-use building fund
again if somebody wants to propose a
change you know we can we can certainly
consider that discuss it I think you
know probably we're all agreed that
three and orange need to stay right
where they are yeah Road Improvement
front at
410k um just noting the comment here
needs to be a board of selectman
discussion about future Road workk
planning I'm gonna I'm gonna put it out
there since you're I am gonna propose a
change to this one I agree and it's
based on the spreadsheet of all the
discussions I've heard Jay talk about
all the things I've learned through
listening and what's in there now what's
proposed and what the total will be I
understand from Jay and Eric and
everyone that's talked to us that you
know road work is done not during the
winter because they have to be seasonal
um you know we got that beautiful plan
that he sent us um but I'm glad to see
that this one has a big balance right
now to to start with for his April work
you know there's like 600k in there um
on that form that I had oh here it is y
yeah and they're asking for the 420 I
get it we're happy that they're making a
lot of progress but that would give them
a combined of 1 million something for
next year and then the work was all
listed and I'm sure they're and and Jay
said himself he understands that they'll
get to what they can so
I am going to make a motion to cut this
one a little in the event to save the
taxpayers some money this year knowing
how knowing all the things I just listed
um in the funding cycle and the work
cycle and getting everything done so do
you want to make your motion I'm Mak a
motion to decrease this amount by
100,000 for this year leaving
320,000 there 310
310 because it's 410 right Road
Improvement fund oh I must have printed
an earlier version is it
okay 410 it's 420 on my one that I
printed so yes I would like to leave it
at 3:10 it'll be you know a high amount
that will still be in there for the next
year that's my
motion anybody want to second that Liz
seconds um no I was I wanted to I wanted
some
discussion second before disc I'll
second it sure I'll second it this
second it disc but I definitely have
some questions for discussion because
I'm wondering if we should lower it more
but um so when you look on the road
Improvement tab Eric it shows 2425 and
it shows all these items one two three
four five six items six items for the
2425 season sure total up to that total
up to 490,000 right
um what of
those has been
done what if any of those have been done
I guess are those yet to be done that is
spring work that is work to that's that
seasonal thing Liz that I've learned
they do some so
this this whole
$490,000 is expected to have been spent
this
spring right it's a wish list this is
what they're hoping to get done I mean I
I would assume they're going to do a lot
of work in April
yeah right so okay basically part of the
reason why we frontload a lot of the
work before July one
typically is that we have that's when we
have the contractor availability because
most of everybody spends all their road
work but budget between July 1 and
October it tends to be more cost
effective for us to have money prior to
the other towns and and the other thing
too is that when you take shim and Chip
seal you know if you take the amount of
shimming that we're going to do that's
probably six or seven straight weeks of
work by our contractor and then you can
chip seal on top so we spread that out
over the whole summer and we try to get
all the shimming and a lot of the
preliminary stuff done first so that you
know we have a new budget and we can go
right into additional chip seal um part
of the reason why we have a much bigger
Surplus right now is because not this
last fall but the fall before or if our
chip seal
contractor screwed the pooch and never
came out and did the work so we had
about $170,000
backlog or
$180,000 backlog that we pushed to the
following year which has pushed
everything else we've done
back um so that's why but ideally Jay
goes into the spring season with three
to
$400,000 available for early work
between the budget and down Aid Road
money can I ask a quick question Eric
when you have a situation like you just
described where you know the contract
are bricked and we have money but we
can't spend it because literally the
contractor didn't show up can we make up
time or is it a situation where we run
into a problem where there's only so
much you can work almost only so much
work you can do in a certain amount of
time yeah it's it's a little bit of both
you could
spend as much money as you wanted on
chip
seal um because that process process I
mean we'll spend our you know $150 or
$200,000 chip seal budget um literally
in a day and a half with the contractor
so that but the the shimming portion
that takes a lot of time because we shim
you know we try to shim with as little
as little asphalt as we can so we do
very specific sections and that's a Time
intensive
process um
yep
okay so I guess I know I brought this
motion up and and like I said it's hard
cutting anywhere and we have to go year
to year with different things and I felt
confident with this amount that's left
over knowing they have some for the
spring work like Jay says they float
this what Eric talked about
so you know with trying to get a
reasonable budget past this year you
know and knowing we have some hard work
to do I looked at this as a place that
we could based on this spreadsheet you
know and that's my take on
it so my take for those who care is that
this is a little bit of a deeper cut
than I'm comfortable with so I would
vote I'm gonna vote no on this one but I
would be open to the possibility of
something in between the current you
know requested amount and Joann's motion
I would say the same thing that Rob said
I think we definitely have we have work
to do here so we're gonna have to cut
that sum as much as I hate to but I I
would like to see it a little bit less
than that Joanne um I'm more in line
with what Rob said maybe maybe cut it by
50 or 60,000 I think I blipped out and
clearly I'm changing room so I I missed
that conversation thank you for fit
fitting it in you said you wanted to go
down lower okay yeah what I what I say
is that I'm going to vote no on your
motion not because I'm completely
against cutting this budget line item I
just feel it's too deep a cut and so I'm
in favor of something in between what
you've proposed and the proposed budget
amount that we have on our spreadsheet
so basically what Bill said is it's
exactly what I'm thinking 50 60k I could
be comfortable with your cut a little
too much for me got it okay uh yeah you
might have heard my comment Joan it was
the same thing yeah and I know people
love it and they're doing a great job I
just took every yeah it's just trying to
find a place that we can cut and feel
comfortable with and you know yeah hey I
just I just cut like 1500 bucks out of
something because I saw something so I I
get it I understand and they've got you
know the balance and we know that the
guys aren't going to get to everything
they want to and some emergency is going
to come up and I I just felt good about
that this year I understand I won't
prolong it right let's just let's just
have the vote you know unless somebody
else has forther comments Louise yeah I
have a question for Eric um would
something like this cause any issues in
the town do you see any problems
reducing the budget of
this he's never gonna wantan to cut
Louise I don't think but we question I
mean of course you know will is it a
problem for the town I mean the easy
solution is just to eliminate the cape
seal line item if we're going to do it
um you know and I
think I don't know what's going to
happen with tomorrow's board or Friday's
Board of Selectmen meeting every time we
do chip seal you know I get an enormous
amount of people pissed off at me and
frankly it's frustrating I don't like
dealing with all the negative comments
regarding chip seal um we do it because
it's cheap and that's what the town can
afford um that's the absolute cheap
cheapest thing we can do to our roads um
to keep them functioning some of them
look really nice Eric I got you know
some of the roads I'm I like for a year
or two yeah yeah is it people don't like
it when it first goes down that it has
kind of a grally aspect and they don't
like that or something well both both
it's dusty and started using a new one
Eric right
what well you I was saying there was one
year that you used kind of a bigger
larger Stone but you switch to a smaller
finer is that right something that's a
little more palatable for people two
companies yeah no we we've gone back and
forth between two different
contractors and it switches a little bit
the nature of complaints we get about it
but we get roughly the same number of
complaints for both
contractors
um you know the Gorman stuff everybody
because it's super
Dusty um you know because of their
process when we use comr we get less
complaints about the Dust early on but
then the plow scrapes a lot more of it
off and they really did a lot lousy job
of the overlaps on the roads they did
last year so it's a really imperfect
process burnap Brook that road has been
done correct Eric burnap no
burnap you sent me on one road one time
then and it it was so nice but sorry
wrong
road so Eric you made the comment that
you would be comfortable with the cape
seal eliminating that this year Well
it's not that I'm comfortable with it
I'm just saying that that's if you look
at what the budget is if you're going to
drop a 100K out of the budget you know
or a big number that's where it's going
to come out of um because you can't just
say we're going to Cape seal $50,000 wor
because the contractor is not going to
come out for that so you know you either
do it or you don't do
it Eric can I ask a further promotional
question then based on that sure if
hypothetically we were have cut $50,000
out of this budget would that have the
same impact because you couldn't get the
contractor to do the cape seal or could
you find
50k El elsewhere in the budget and keep
that because if you what you're telling
me is that
you know the cape s contractor isn't
going to come out for less than the
budgeted amount if we cut you know
whether it's 100K or 50k if it has the
same impact on the town I'd kind of like
to know that okay so if you look at the
2526 budget and say what are discrete
amounts catch Basin cleaning you either
do your catch Basin or you don't if you
do it's going to run you about 40
Grand plus or minus it and that depends
on the actual time it takes them to suck
out each catch Basin um in terms of
materials I mean we know we have a ton
of roads to work off we worked through
over the last couple of years most of
our drainage material supply so we're
going to have to reset a lot of that
this year regardless of what we do um
pavement
markings let me tell you straight out I
don't like striping roads um I would
happily eliminate the $30,000 a year we
spend striping roads because I think it
makes it less safe for pedestrians and
less safe for me as a cyclist but I get
an enormous amount of complaints every
time I do it people like their Road
stried um so that can be
eliminated um but we'll just get a lot
of FL for it um Flex beam you know every
year we budget somewhere between 30 and
$50,000 for guard rail last time I
checked on our priority list of of guard
rail
needs um we have about around more than
$200,000 of priority guard rail
replacement because our old uh post and
wire ones I mean they're all falling
apart so so we just chip away at that
every year so whatever you give me we'll
spend wisely you know I mean if you
think I mean 50 Grand cut it 50 Grand no
I I completely understand all of that I
the point I was making is I was keying
off of what you said about the cape seal
on specific you know the idea that you
know look the contractor not going to
come out to do a $50,000 job they're
going to come out to do $120,000 job and
that
my concern is that if there's no if I if
I'm going to push for a smaller cut and
it's still costs us the cape seal then
have I achieved anything that's what I'm
sort of going for here um but I I'm with
you on the payment markings and you can
tell them to yell at me instead if that
makes you feel
better guys I'm going off of what Jay
told us point blank in the meeting too
and and I'm I think I'm used to towns
that operate like that
where he just said Hey listen you know
he he anticipates he's used to being
with towns that will cut budgets and
then just work with it and I felt like
we had a hefty starting balance not
Hefty we all wish we had a lot more
could do everything this is just a year
that the numberers high for the budget
and Jay was very willing to do
everything I think hey if I was in
Eric's position I wouldn't want anything
cut either so that's all you know it's
it's not fun but I think that they're
going to get done what they can if it's
a 100,000 we cut we're going to put a
couple of these things together they're
probably going to be so busy that they
don't get to all of them anyways I'm not
trying to yeah it's just a thought and
Rob I know you went into it and we don't
want to lose some kind of big thing but
I felt very comfortable I felt he was a
real version of Something used to people
doing budgets getting budgets Cuts had
worked with that before and we're a tiny
town so um
yeah I didn't feel like he made it be a
big deal if something was going to be
cut he said I'll work with what you guys
give me yeah so will I I've said my
piece I'm good oh yeah any further
discussion or can we call a
questione let's
vote although all those in favor say I
I have two all those opposed say Nay Nay
Nay so we lose Louise again no l i see L
I don't see Kim or Liz I see K I
see I said yes where's I thought there
was no more yes I'm yes oh so how Mark
give us the count I didn't really hear I
couldn't see everybody so let's do this
again all those in
favor I I okay all those
opposed okay so we have a motion uh
fails at 4 to
three okay Rob so I will move uh in
consideration of our discussion to
reduce the to the Town Road budget by
$50,000 to
360 for this coming
year want to second the motion I'll
second it Bill
seconds further
discussion i' be favor of somewhere I
thought we were saying in between the
two things so I'd still like to see a
little more cut but I don't know is
right in the middle that's literally
half of what you right exactly in half
Joan Oh I thought he said halfway in
between sorry he said half you're
proposing a level of funding of
$360,000 just to clarify $50,000 cut is
opposed to $100,000 cut no I know that's
half I thought you said me in the middle
sorry yeah I think we just needed to
clarify
proposing funding it at
$360,000 yeah yeah which is 50,000 less
than the pent currently that's right
half half the cut proposed before
further
discussion personally I'm GNA vote no
because I would like to say it where it
is we're bandaid Road as it is but I
understand the it's one of the few
places we can probably take a little
money out that has meaningful so yeah I
don't like it either cling it I'm
proposing it as a compromise yeah and
that's the way this works so yeah oh no
one's angry I just misunderstood the
thing before I get it yeah okay any
further
discussion all those in favor say I I I
all those
opposed I'm sorry were you you're in
favor Kim in favor okay the motion
passes 6 to1 I the loone dis enter there
so hey I I'm with I'm actually kind of
with you emotionally I'm with you
too it's just a bad year we
got we got do things honestly uh if it
if it had been a tie I would have voted
probably for it are we gonna kind I'm
concerned about our longterm planning
for the roads just my I don't like it
statement did and now I'm gonna kick
myself later for it Mark don't worry
yep me too we do we do you you a road
last Rob yeah hey it's on the it's on
the list I'm gonna get screwed
now well at least you don't have to live
where Bill and I did we got our road
joh said what did they do to our road
all say Okay Lise so can Eric direct
that where it's best yeah course he can
yeah
yeah J function not an Eric function but
it's a hug whatever 600,000 still left
all right okay here we go okay okay so
moving on if we could we make that a
different color are we gonna let's
finish this out oh yeah we need we got
change back to the main sheet I I I was
I was making the change and I forgot I
was sharing that
sheet oh we're almost there folks I
think okay so the next line is the tree
removal fund I heard no appetite for
making any changes there correct me if
I'm wrong Bunker Hill root Bridge fund
has been zeroed um bridg culbert fund
again Eric asked if we leave us alone so
if somebody has further comments you can
we can talk about that uh the main
building fund so already a
cut yeah they're taking that from
100,000 down to 50 grand um again the uh
the spreadsheet had the projects if
anybody wanted refer back to I just want
to ask a question y I feel like what's
been good now the building maintenance
fund there's been a lot of improvements
made to the buildings you know between
Eric correct me if I'm wrong is this
like where the acoustic money came from
to correct the acoustical sound and the
things and correct yeah I mean that was
a big thing this year so we took it from
there so I feel like we're getting to
where we want our buildings to be at
least kind of like we said with the
firehouse that that we might not okay
thank you probably need my
glasses like thank oh thank you this is
this is Building Maintenance funds this
is
like stuff for the kitchen the hbac
because they've done stuff to the
generators I feel like if I'm you know
I'm paying attention in meetings I feel
like we've done a lot of improvements
through the year so that's all the HVAC
system in the town hall was a retrofit
right that's that heat pump install Eric
that's that's that's part of that right
yep yep and are those done this is what
we're proposing to spend the money how
bad is the is the Mason re repairs what
what will that entail I'm not recalling
oh 25 by the time we finish that um I'm
GNA say it's going to be somewhere in
the order of
$200,000 um this getss a deposit it on
what we need to do and gets us started
thinking about an eventual long-term
solution for the Public Works
building it's a Public Works building
thing say no more that's
like is that the building that's from
like 1850 yes that is a thought this was
Town Hall something year old building
that we're still using as a public works
facility right um and
frankly so Ju Just background the reason
why I want to take that out of the
building maintenance fund is because if
I spend any loow siip dollars on that I
need approval by the state historical
preservation Society because that is on
the State Historical register gez um and
I don't want to mess with that so that
is
one ultimately I want us to eat the cost
of it and and frankly probably what
we're going to do in the next year or so
is we're going to tear down the whole
front storage building of that building
because the re roof has been leaking for
the last 20 years um and that whole
front piece is going to come down what
we call the cold storage and we're just
going to tear it down and get rid of it
um um and then repair the cold storage
spot behind that um but I mean really
what we're trying to do honestly is
Band-Aid that building and keep it going
because I think there's no expectation
that the town is going to cough up the
you know six to 10 billion dollar it
would take to build us a new Public
Works facility so up until as long as we
can run that building we're going to run
it and we're going to end up spending
some money to do it um you know there's
a bunch of things in there uh the above
ground oil tank that's for the
old what is now the Museum um that is a
concern of mine because we have an old
uh oil tank sitting out there um that we
don't know what age it is and it's an
exterior single wall tank um is there
containment at all around that Eric nope
ah get rid of it get it
out the insurance guy he's putting his
insurance hat on fre I'm an I'm
literally an environmental claims
Handler get it out of there I God I
agree totally that
um steel tank my God the the things that
are that we could put off I mean we
could put off the heat pump installation
in that building considering a solution
for that um that's definitely possible
um the cabinet and countertop
replacement the board of selectman
basically and CIP have already approved
that that's the firehouse thing
we so a lot of this stuff is money
that's
been essentially
allocated uh through the well that's why
I thank you that's why I asked the
question you know just to see like we
talk about in budgets like in your home
are all of these needs or wants so I
appreciate you putting this out there so
that everybody can see this you know in
just this year where we were trying to
it was a huge Mill read mill rate M am I
saying it mill rate increase and then
you know overall spending we have to
keep remember in that even though we
throw Surplus at it and bring it
artificially down you know we are
marrying the town to whatever we pass
for those expenses as the norm so if I'm
seen just trying to ask questions here
that's what I'm trying to do so like and
you know because once we pass it then
everybody thinks that's the level budget
we start there and we only go up um oh
we're going down in this fund for for
this compared to last year so there that
right but maybe because of all the
expenses trying to see which ones are
needs or wants so that's why I asked the
questions and he said himself just like
I listen to things in meetings that
could be put off so it's not saying
let's not do it we're you know like that
HVAC he so I want to get down to the I'm
going to get down to public works this
week and look at it I mean Jay has
invited me I had a shower the day
everybody else went and just kind of see
some of this stuff and whether I vote
for it or not in the masonry I thought
was at the Town Hall so that's does
anybody just did anybody want to make a
motion to change this can I ask a
another question first yeah sure are any
of these paid for in this current Year's
budget like plumbing and electrical for
the kitchen I thought that was already
done well so remember the building
maintenance fund is a rolling fund so
this that top line for Plumbing in
electrical will be spent out by the end
of this year year but we're just what
I'm basically saying is look we
forecasted for the next year between now
in the end of the next budget cycle
about
$135,000 in expenses and the only way to
do that is to add to our current balance
that's all um if if you cut the fund
we'll do less stuff it's it's not so my
yeah my question is not is not whether
or not to do it my question is any of
these things already done that were paid
for in the current budget like the
electrical for the kitchen the kitchen's
already done so the electrical hasn't
been done what electric some of the
plumbing is done the electrical is not
done it was not but we hadn't I suspect
the current balance here is actually
lower because we've been tapping that
fund for what we're doing in
there that makes sense and the drat fans
I thought those were discussed months
ago
yeah we did I think we approved those as
well curious why there why this isn't
here and not in the AAS budget but um
well because it is a capital project and
it is not a capital project that the
school wanted to do it is a capital
project that the board of Selectmen
wanted the school to
do it's used for recreation widely
through the town so that was kind of I
think what
is that the gym is kind of a multi-use
but yeah it was also serves it was kind
of Jeff Murray's baby um he gave what to
me was a very convincing
explanation uh for the idea but yeah I
think that's how it went down moving so
I guess my question was this was months
ago and that and it hasn't been paid for
yet I mean shouldn't we haven't done the
work all these oh it hasn't okay the
work hasn't been done yet is it correct
I guess I guess I'm thinking it was
already budgeted for in the previous
budget and we're looking for next year
I'm just trying to showing us how he's
gonna spend the money that's in there
now if every every the way I look at
this is we have a total and then Eric
does a good job of showing us what would
be done and I heard from Eric's mouth
himself which I don't hear very often
that's why I'm going to make the the
final this next motion that they could
put off the hiac thing so to me that's
more of a wish and I heard that from
Eric so I'm going to go ahead and make
the motion to drop this line by 173
17,300 um or this fund so I have to do
the math um that would be 33 but
32 or let's just drop it by 17 and leave
the three so I'm so you're proposing we
change the uh 12al
line and put off that project till next
year and save the taxpayers a little bit
of money there because Eric himself said
it could
wait am I correct that that would be
1288 that you're proposing I thought it
was funded this year at50 it would take
50,000 down to oh we've switched my
fault my fault my fault I was looking at
the wrong number my fault second the
motion I'll second it okay Liz
seconds further discussion
yeah we're just lowering it to 33,000 if
some job miraculously has to come up
hopefully there can be some transfers
within this budget to to cover it so I
feel comfortable you know lowering that
this year based on our conversations
okay all right anyone
else okay let's take a vote all those in
favor say I hi hi all those posed no
they so Liz you're opposed no I'm I'm a
I'm a okay your hand was sorry I just
you're holding up your head from our
long yeah yeah sorry I my screen was
freezing earlier so I just want to make
sure I got it right so uh the motion
passes 4 to two and we will change this
to
33,000 thank
you okay AES Capital fund this is
for zero so we're taking 100,000 out
that's being funded through the Sur
right and the 2% non
lapsing and I wanted to am I allowed to
speak Mark do you have to go first well
what do you want to speak about well I
know there's only one after the AES you
know and the open space fund I heard
discussed in I understand it and I I
think it's a great fun to have on the
spreadsheet you'll see that we have a
great total in there already um it was
discussed at the BOS meeting that
there's no properties that they're
currently looking at at all and we've
got a big pot of money already so you
know to help the taxpayers again I'd
like to zero this line out for this year
and revisit it in the future based on
the total if you could show us the total
on the spreadsheet it's
284,000 284,000 311 is what's in we're
close to 300,000 with no properties in
sight nothing on the horizon nothing
they plan on buying this year so I feel
comfortable with that being more of just
we're Pat not patting it you know it's
it's a good fun to have but I feel
comfortable there's enough in there with
nothing on the horizon this year to um
take that down this year I know it's
going to hurt some I know who likes
every single fun so I hate to do it but
that's my I'd like to make a motion to
do that the only
sorry go on go ahead are you making a
motion Joanne then oh yes so I'd like to
make a motion to um take that down to
zero for this year based on the things
that I said okay and a BIG full budget
already okay second second L seconds
okay discussion Rob yeah so my
only like I understand Joan I do yeah
thank you my only the thing that gives
me pause here and this goes back
way back I can't remember the exact date
where we lost out on a property because
we just didn't have the money put aside
and it hurt us because and it was it was
like this really dumb situation where if
we just had some money set aside we
could have gotten property that was on
the rail trail and you know
so I I know exactly what you're doing I
completely understand it and I just
disagree and I I think I'm gonna vote
now that's all than I would say the same
as Rob we you know the problem is when
open space might become available you
never know it could it could something
could pop next week There's No radar is
really what it and you don't know if
it's 25,000 or 300,000 right isn't that
contingency I don't know can can we use
contingency for that I mean we could go
to contingency couldn't you if this is
real probably could you just have to
either way you got to go to town meeting
right yeah you'd have to have a whole
town meeting which is it makes the
process even
more then they should have a vote if
they want it the town that I don't I
don't that's all it's just one of those
they all said they have nothing on the
horizon so I I know I just think I think
that's just that's how it is yeah
understood that it's not on the horizon
till it suddenly pops up that's that's
my two cents okay anybody else I would
you know on the fence with this one too
because I hear you Rob and I've I know
the exact situation you're talking about
I know the exact situation and I was
like God why didn't we buy that but to
go along with what Joan is saying it is
a year where there's a two- Mill
increase that's never going to pass and
I hate to zero that out I it goes
against my grain it's like the road crew
the road uh work but I just think if
we're ever to get a budget to pass we
have to start looking that some of these
line items are we're dead in the water
so I'm going to have to say I will vote
Yes when it comes to vote
understood but I'm I I'm totally in your
Camp Rob I yeah it's a tough one it is
this is it's just a bad year for none of
this is easy I know it's hard on
everyone anybody else have any
comments okay we'll take a vote all
those in favor say I and hold your hand
up if I
could okay so we have five eyes all
those opposed Nay n
okay 5 to two motion passes we'll zero
that out thank
you going back to the main budget sheet
here oh yep all the
blue blue yes well I mean that's I just
I'm not like that's when I get to look
at it tomorrow with fr helpful though to
have we have now gone through all of the
line items uh we have nothing in debt
retirement or interest
expense um so that leaves the current
budget at
$3,562 51 and five cents we're a 2.8%
increase overall that includes of course
the uh AES and the ram budget uh Eric I
at following do we have a final Ram
budget
NOP I didn't think so I'm just grabbing
a pen I'll be right back so that that
change is 255,000 so that's less than a
mill we're looking at now right a
mill huh half a mill rate it looks like
half a mill no a mill is 313 according
to what Eric said earlier was 313 135 so
we're now less than a mill three all I'm
trying to say instead of a two M
increase we're we're less than a mill
right now no right now your mill rate
increase 1.3 1. two
something but remember when the final
calculations are made coming back right
for the motor vehicle
assessment we're going to get the grand
list will go up based on the board of
selectman's decision about 90,000 did
you say was that right or
oh what was that I'm not going to give
you the
the uh mill rate will go up some number
of millions how much of that I don't
know um you know that's because I I
can't do the numbers crunching on that
that has to be done by Vision appraisal
um and they've got you know of 169 towns
like 165 of them had chosen to pick the
higher millry so they're basically
redoing an entire Fall's worth of work
um by April 15 we have I have asked that
we get ours done because we're a smaller
and simple Town simpler town so we have
it by the April 9th meeting and we can
give a final mill rate at the the annual
budget meeting but I don't know whether
that will be the case or not depends on
the contractor and and let's not forget
that the mill rate is just the way to
calculate what's being taxed at what a
level what's really happening here is%
the total taxation of the of the
taxpayers in the town of Andover is
increasing at
2.0% to me that's pretty dang reasonable
uh overall right we still have a pretty
big pretty big adjustment on the endover
elementary and we've heard the the
reasons for that that'll that'll be left
to the town meeting and the taxpayers at
the town meeting of course um but the
the mill rate's one thing but the story
I think is that there's a 2% overall
increase to the town of Andover
taxpayers yeah that's what really
matters how we that increase yeah it's
just one part get caught up in the mill
rate yeah total by taxation to me is is
the line that's the one to look at well
again it's how we get there we have to
remember and so I had to walk away and
get a pen did
did you know we've I wanted to ask a
question I guess last year we had put
150 to the B fund balance I think Eric
put the 190 so we're not doing Apples to
Apples exactly because I think you added
that extra 40 that should have been in
last year is that what that is Eric or
was it the
interest right so all right so we have
190 there
and I can you guys repeat and I so
apologize the beginning of the night you
were talking about the total budget and
then today I think Bill was saying it
what was that statement you made bill
just so I could follow that I'm sorry
when when I said earlier tonight I
thought you said or someone said at the
beginning of the night Eric said we had
this and now we have this so are we
saying that all of the updates that
we've made have
been has everything filtered in by so
we're looking at what we have now as a
my understanding is that's the current
number that 2% like Mark made the
changes and should have propagated right
okay I'm gonna look real close so I'm G
to take my camera off in case I have a
question so I don't annoy anybody right
Mark that should be the case right like
you you made the line item changes that
we voted on tonight and it should have
been it should be reflected in that two%
number correct yeah yeah that's that's
our current working so the the total by
taxation increase at the last um gotcha
yeah at the last uh spreadsheet that we
worked on in our last meeting was at
2.9%
right yep and I like to look at how much
we've raised the expenses for the town
you know what I mean because we can
artificially def no so I I get you and
I'll do that on my own so right now
we're saying it's a 2% but it's how we
got there that's 2% by taxation you're
right and right it's 2% by taxation
taxation people mainly care about the
mill rate things like that I mean we
need to tell that story because all it
really does is it's shifting a little
bit of the taxation more on the
homeowners and less on the vehicle
owners right right right and then
counterbalanced by the reversal that's
been allowed where we get to go back and
raise that mill rate back up the the
auto uh because you know there was an
outcry about that um but you know I
think just big picture getting from 2.9
to two is pretty good work that's hope
we didn't I hope we didn't cut too deep
but I don't think we cut very deep you
know I think it was it was hard to do
what we did but yeah uh but I'm
personally you know that's that's not a
bad number all things considered so I'm
happy uh but you know a little bit of
the fun balance to get there but I think
it's okay yeah we're finally making some
good interest off that stiff account
which is really nice yeah uh that me for
years and years I can't believe how many
years we
went without doing that it just kills me
anyway let's look forward
Rod look for a up back that's
right I think it's good that we're where
we are today I think we had some
discussions both publicly and private
you know and privately that could change
things a little bit but I don't think
they probably should be done right now I
mean I'm just looking for so I think you
know so I I like that we've already
talked about at this meeting that next
week will be the hearing we all go back
to the drawing board and we you know
come back next week ready as I did today
you know I put my put my face out there
as do all of you so I'm gonna I'm gonna
are we are we okay with this can we move
on to the next I can't give my final
thoughts all right I will got my final
thought y please sorry I wanted to see
the bottom line on the main tab what is
the bottom line budget number I just
wanted
to yeah that's what I would like toer 13
million yeah 1
million
2515 hold on please stay there for
myself
too there you go that's I think what I
was getting at earlier thank you let me
get close
yeah and then you know if you look at
the change it's there also the total
spending package of 251
2.8 there you go thank you that's
exactly and then last year it was
127 correct 128 it says corrected so I
don't I would go with the 128 number
right oh 128 sorry right so the approved
why we correct I'm not understanding the
corrected I mean what did we pass
so I will explain that the approved
budget last year for total expenditures
was
12,841
511 however that as we well know
included an error that was around
$40,000 gotcha so when you look here at
the corrected budget yeah that gives you
the number with the correction but which
what number the 128 is the corrected
yeah yeah the 128 is the corrected
number yep the current corrected budget
okay okay so that's the real budget for
this this fiscal year and so gotcha and
this year it would be 13 yeah which is
how you get to
255 five as your
increase so all right so and I believe
last last week making notes it was like
in the threes yeah that's what I was at
guys earlier I makes sense from the cuts
that we made tonight so we did Make Some
Cuts we did yep so did we actually cut
$389,500 as the total increase I had
notes on another thing so whatever
because yeah go ahead Liz
right now new the new proposed budget is
looking at
13,56
251 and before we made these Cuts if I'm
not mistaken it it was
13446 136
13446 um let me look I that no was not
that high it was because remember the
board of Selectmen whacked a fair bid
out of this budget
also right so we we made some cuts on
top of Some Cuts guys right like you
know the open space fund I think if
memory serves there was a $25,000 cut
and we cut another 20 we cut it all the
way down so right so there were already
Some Cuts in there this was this was the
spreadsheet we were looking at last week
yeah so 13150 whoops Eric always had
something off to the right and on the
mill rate page that said the increase in
spending and I thought it was 330 one
week it might have been
313 but well okay 350 here you go 350
our current increase in spending total
year-over-year is
$214,700
but that is with the AES going up 380
something in the town coming
down you know
115,000
111,000
oh and we've also
already capital and the and remember the
AES budget has come down hugely when
they agreed to give us their Surplus
back wait a minute how did the budget
come down yes um R okay that scared me
I'm like wait you can't do figure it out
late that's why Ram budget is negative
now because year overy year given the
two things you
know yeah guys they did that last year
too they gave they dispersed the money
back to the towns at one point the up
increase I wrote it I finally found it
was
408 312 at one point then we did like
take away the AES Capital so we are
coming down to whatever yeah the 255 or
whatever number we have I didn't write
all the way for the increase in expenses
I know it's late Mark but it just it
makes sense to see where we've come down
on his spreadsheet originally there was
a little thing to the to the right that
said this budget is up 408 312 that's
yeah at one point so y
so we have you know and it's up there to
the right whatever yeah you got to go
all the way over
but there we go so now we're at the 214
so that must be linked in okay I see
what you did Eric what you were talking
about a little propose unless somebody
wants to take make a motion to modify
any of these numbers we move on to our
agenda item next agenda item we got I'll
make that motion that we move on to so
are you are you before you do that are
you approving this this is what you're
going to public hearing on this budget
right now because we're by definition
this is where we
are I that's why I wanted to finish and
wrap up my discussion just if we do that
and I know you want to go to the next
item we will so this is where we are
right now and you said all of this is
updated and then we're allowed to modify
more if we look at things or want to
bring MO yeah we'll still have that
option yeah that's all just confirming
we'll still vote on a final recommended
budget to take the town meeting and
that'll typically be after the public
hearing next week I feel like we made
good inroads then because we did get
some things done tonight all right let's
go
go okay hearing no more discussion then
we're g to move
on okay next up on our agenda we have
I think just the approval of the meeting
minutes all right that is correct so we
have the tri board meeting minutes the
regular meeting
minutes um The Joint Board of finance
and board of selectman Workshop minutes
and the regular meeting minutes probably
need to uh take tackle all of these in
uh separately since we didn't always
have attendance on those the same so
if we
could I guess I'll go ahead and share I
don't just for the sake of
reference the first meeting minutes is
the tri board meeting minutes of
Wednesday December
4th does anybody want to make a motion
to approve these I make the
motion I had a couple changes on this
one or a couple call outs because I
actually read them
they're little
um on page two of this one there's a few
things that are not correct or hey Liz
can I just interject for one minute if
everyone's I I get the feeling that
everyone's tired and if there are going
to be projected which it's
understandable do we want to just put
these all off till next meeting again I
mean because we're just right in the
middle of budget season and by the time
it's it's up to everybody if there's
going to be changes on different ones
and all of that it's up to everybody do
we want to tackle this tonight I was
feeling fine but I felt like everyone
was rushing us on so um does every we've
been here for three and a half hours so
that understandably so so this isn't an
urgent matter so we should maybe put
this off and do this next mon I agree
with Joan I think it's something that we
could put off this is something we
should just put off I'm trying to I'm
totally okay with that yeah let's do it
because I kind of want to read
I want to read what I would suggest
though is um if if if anybody sees any
discrepancies and thank you for reading
through it Liz I was not at that meeting
but maybe what you want to do is
identify those and just highlight them
send them out in an email so we can kind
of review them in okay I missed that
meeting too so good kudos to you for
checking yeah and I we've all kind of
read through them but it's been a while
it's aot it's a lot of text on that one
so y yeah I can send out my edits
they're minor some of them are just um
some are spelling some is a sentence
that and I think
more added in a couple places so I want
to have the chance to do that too so so
I will send my comments on to the group
and then if anybody else sees any
comments they can add on email we'll do
it that way that's
fine all right if nobody wants to make a
motion regarding the meeting minutes
then I'll make a motion that we that we
pass on the meeting minutes until uh the
next official Board of Finance meeting
we don't really need to motion that we
just don't take action and we'll move on
agreement yeah okay good I make to
agenda item nine which is board open
discussion I'm sorry what was that
nothing we were think I think
everybody's getting a little Punchy
here see I ate that's why I got my
energy back have anything to add under
board open
discussion no anybody have any
correspondence that has not been shared
I think we receive all received this
stuff from the Board of Ed and we talked
about it tonight that's all I've
gotten okay we have public speaks we
have t gr is that Terry that's t s
s anything to
add public speak she might asleep this
is a one of those longer meetings
so okay if you don't have anything test
we'll move move on you are still muted
but we'll go on um next agenda item is
adjournment When anybody like to make a
motion to adjourn I'll
make I'll make the motion to adjourn
okay I heard Louise first thank you
Louise anybody second I'll pan thank you
any
discussion it's a Hot Topic tonight
okay all those in favor say I I any
opposed any
exensions hearing none the motion passes
we are adjourned thank you very much
everybody uh we have a everyone we've
been through it we'll see you with the
public hearing next week and continue
continue from there okay Mark quick
question before you so is the agenda set
for us or
it um it's a week away I'll send an
email no problem yeah I mean I think the
agenda is simply you know know
presentation of the budget public
comment and then uh board Open disc
discussion on the budget you know final
final approval yeah I just want to make
sure we add budget Workshop continues or
whatever we do just to finalize okay
yeah we we will absolutely have the
opportunity to to make further Chang oh
no right thank you and I know I know
I've asked it several times don't think
I'm forgetting I just want to make sure
we don't have to put something on the
agenda
thank
you night everyone you look like you're
raising your hand so I was just gonna
say tomorrow uh morning early can you
get me so the I made Corrections at the
same time in my copy of the budget but
at this point we normally run off of
yours so if you could send me that
tomorrow morning I'm sending to you in
three minutes I will make PDFs of that
in the morning and we will publish that
on the town's website for the public
Mark Mark can you share it with us y
copy everybody yeah and just ER is that
a little preliminary to put it on the
website is it is it preliminary budget
is that what you're saying um you're
having a workshop you need to tell the
public what your budget list I get it
I'm only asking a question it doesn't
have to be like I'm a little kid getting
yelled at I get that we're having a
workshop thank you I I get it I just I
asked if it was preliminary to do that
that's
all thank you if you don't want it
publish I won't publish it well I don't
know if we've ever done that before so I
was I was asking if we have it I don't
think it's finalized yet it's a draft
budget right not really in its
final correct Yeah final one will be
what we distribute before the town
budget meeting as long as it's to noted
as a draft I have no problem I mean
what's the problem
question fine it's the current working
draft Yeah okay I think we're in
agreement I'll send it around to
everybody thank you everybody thanks
Eric as have a
happy bye
bye try